A single is very important to a professional songwriter .
To have their song picked up by an artist and included on an album pays the rent ; to have it released as a single pays for the fringe .
This song was written by successful songwriters who were also recording artists , so it was included on a couple of big-name albums .
Still it has never been released as a single .
Singer/songwriter Billy Montana recalls how he initially hooked up with Henry Paul and Ken Block , founding members of the Outlaws and Sister Hazel , respectively , and wrote this song : `` It 's so funny , because there was a couple of Sister Hazel songs that I was completely in love with .
One was ` Champagne High , ' and then ` Change Your Mind . '
And what was funny is that , in listening to ` Change Your Mind , ' I always heard Henry Paul in Ken 's vocal .
I think they have a real similar vocal.I 've known Henry for 11 years now .
I made an album back in ' 95 , and he called me one night out of the blue just to say that he really loved the album .
It was a thrill for me , because I was a big fan .
I was an Outlaws fan , I was a Henry Paul Band fan .
And I love Blackhawk , too .
So when he called , I was really , really touched that he did that .
And then we ended up going to a Bruce Springsteen concert .
He invited me , he had tickets to a Springsteen unplugged show , and so I went with him .
And so we kind of hit it off on a personal level , as well as musical level .
And so I 've been writing with him and Dave Robbins .
And we wrote ` One Love , ' and Blackhawk recorded it for their Spirit Dancer album . ''
Ken Block and Henry Paul have often been told their singing voices sound alike , and even they recognize that fact .
In the case of this song , they used it to their advantage to record two separate versions .
Explains Billy , `` Somehow their paths had crossed and Henry and Ken had talked about how people say that their voices sound a lot alike .
And so Henry played him the acoustic version of ` One Love , ' and Ken really dug it .
And it was n't like we all sat in the room and wrote it together .
But Ken wanted to turn it into a Sister Hazel song , and so after Henry , Dave , and I had written it , Ken added a bridge , and then changed just a few things lyrically to make it work for Sister Hazel .
It 's one of my favorite cuts .
`` Which version is better ?
Completely subjective .
Blackhawk 's version has `` more mandolin on it , and it 's slowed down a lot .
The Blackhawk version does n't rock as much as Sister Hazel , '' says Billy .
`` But they 're both really good .
But I play the song out almost every time I play , I play it out , and it 's a favorite when I do the writer shows . ''
And when he plays writer shows , by virtue of the fact that it 's solo acoustic shows , he tends to play the softer Blackhawk version ; but he does add in Ken 's bridge , and `` I think I try to use more of the rockin ' attitude that Sister Hazel 's recording has .
But when I pitch the song to country acts , I still use the Sister Hazel version to pitch , usually .
Because it 's just got so much energy . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Billy Montana .
We also spoke with Ken Block and Henry Paul . -RRB-
