Founding member Ed Droste told The Sun May 22 , 2009 how this song came about : `` Chris Bear -LRB- our drummer -RRB- and I were on a weekend trip to Cape Cod to play around with some song ideas and that one just came out of nowhere with Chris starting the piano line and myself quickly following with a vocal melody and lyrics . ''
This was the lead single from Veckatimest , Grizzly Bear 's third studio album .
Droste explained Grizzly Bear 's name to The Sun : `` During the time I was ` solo , ' I thought it 'd be a funny name for myself considering I look quite the opposite and my personality is rather teddy bear . ''
Veckatimest debuted at # 8 on the American album chart giving Warp Records their first ever Top 10 placing .
Victoria LeGrand of Beach House supplied multi-tracked guest backing vocals on this other-worldly doo wop song about a relationship .
Singer/co-songwriter/guitarist Daniel Rossen explained to Drowned in Sound : `` When Ed first sent me this demo there was something in the melody that reminded me of Beach House , in a great way .
Seemed like a great track for her to sing on . ''
Veckatimest was recorded at Allaire Studios in upstate New York , Cape Cod , Massachusetts , and in a New York church .
The set has been described by singer Robin Pecknold of their fellow animal-themed folk-rock outfit Fleet Foxes as `` the best record of the decade . ''
Veckatimest -LRB- pronounced ` VECK-ah-TIM-est ' -RRB- is an uninhabited island off the coast of Cape Cod , Massachusetts .
Q magazine June 2009 asked Droste why Grizzly Bear named an album after it .
He replied : `` We 'd spent a lot of time in the region , thanks to my grandmother having a house there that she 'd graciously lent us before .
So in the past we rehearsed , written music and now recorded in the area .
We enjoyed the obtuse , eclectic nature of the name , it fit well with the abstract art well and it conjured up nice memories of the region . ''
The song has featured on several TV commercials including a Volkswagen ad that aired in 2010 during Super Bowl XLIV .
