Bowie wrote this after seeing the 1968 Stanley Kubrick movie 2001 : A Space Odyssey .
`` Space Oddity '' is a play on the phrase `` Space Odyssey , '' and the title does not appear in the lyrics .
The song tells the story of Major Tom , a fictional astronaut who cuts off communication with Earth and floats into space .
This was originally released in 1969 on Bowie 's self-titled album , which was available only in the UK and timed to coincide with the moon landing .
Released as a single , the song made # 5 in the UK , becoming his first chart hit .
In 1972 , the album was re-titled Space Oddity and released in the US for the first time after Bowie achieved modest success in America with the singles `` Changes '' -LRB- # 66 -RRB- and `` The Jean Genie '' -LRB- # 71 -RRB- .
The newly-released `` Space Oddity '' made # 15 , becoming Bowie 's first US Top 40 .
Back in the UK , the song was once again released in 1975 on a single which also contained the songs `` Changes '' and `` Velvet Goldmine . ''
Promoted as `` 3 Tracks for the Price of 2 , '' the single leapt to the top of the charts , earning Bowie his first # 1 in the UK .
In 1983 , Peter Schilling released a sequel to this called `` Major Tom -LRB- I 'm Coming Home -RRB- . ''
Set to a techno beat , it tells the story of Major Tom in space .
In 2003 , K.I.A. released another sequel called `` Mrs. Major Tom , '' which is told from the point of view of Major Tom 's wife .
In the line , `` And the papers want to know whose shirt you wear , '' ` whose shirt you wear ' is English slang for ` what football team are you a fan of ? ' .
The thinking here being that if you can make it into space then your opinions on football matter .
-LRB- Note to Americans - in this case , by `` football '' we mean `` soccer . '' -RRB-
This appears on the soundtrack of the Adam Sandler movie Mr. Deeds .
-LRB- thanks , Hans - Oakdale , CA -RRB- This was originally written by Bowie as a guitar song .
It was the producer Gus Dudgeon who turned it into an epic .
Jimmy Page told Uncut magazine June 2008 : `` I played on his records , did you know that ?
His very early records when he was Davy Jones & The Lower Third .
The Shel Talmy records .
I can think of two individual sessions that I did with him .
He said in some interview that on one of those sessions I showed him these chords , which he used in ` Space Oddity ' - but he said , ` Do n't tell Jim , he might sue me . '
Ha ha ! ''
The session players on the song were Rick Wakeman -LRB- mellotron -RRB- , Mick Wayne -LRB- guitar -RRB- , Herbie Flowers -LRB- bass -RRB- and Terry Cox -LRB- drums -RRB- , plus string musicians .
They were paid just over # 9 each .
In 1969 , this song was awarded the coveted Ivor Novello Award alongside Peter Sarstedt 's `` Where Do You Go To -LRB- My Lovely -RRB- ? ''
In a 2003 interview with Performing Songwriter magazine , Bowie explained : `` In England , it was always presumed that it was written about the space landing , because it kind of came to prominence around the same time .
But it actually was n't .
It was written because of going to see the film 2001 , which I found amazing .
I was out of my gourd anyway , I was very stoned when I went to see it , several times , and it was really a revelation to me .
It got the song flowing .
It was picked up by the British television , and used as the background music for the landing itself .
I 'm sure they really were n't listening to the lyric at all -LRB- laughs -RRB- .
It was n't a pleasant thing to juxtapose against a moon landing .
Of course , I was overjoyed that they did .
Obviously , some BBC official said , ` Oh , right then , that space song , Major Tom , blah blah blah , that 'll be great . '
` Um , but he gets stranded in space , sir . '
Nobody had the heart to tell the producer that . ''
In 1980 , Bowie released a follow-up to this called `` Ashes To Ashes , '' where Major Tom once again makes contact with Earth .
He says he is happy in space , but Ground Control comes to the conclusion that he is a junkie .
When the BBC used this during coverage of the moon landing , there was a great fear that if the missions in space did n't go well , this song would suddenly become inappropriate .
-LRB- thanks , Daniel - The North West , England -RRB- Bowie 's birth name was David Jones .
He changed his name before the movie came out , but the name he picked is similar to the main character in the film : Dave Bowman .
There was speculation that he got the name from the book The Sentinel , which the movie is based on , but Bowie has claimed that his moniker came from the Bowie knife .
Nita Benn 's handclaps can be heard on this recording .
She is the daughter-in-law of the British socialist politician Tony Benn and the mother of Emily Benn , who at the age of 17 became the youngest ever person chosen to fight an election when she was selected in 2007 as the Labour candidate for East Worthing and Shoreham .
Session musician Herbie Flowers -LRB- `` Walk On The Wild Side , '' `` Diamond Dogs '' -RRB- played bass on this track .
He recalled his experience working on this to Uncut magazine June 2008 : `` The first time I played with Bowie was on the session for ` Space Oddity . '
Dear Gus -LRB- Dudgeon -RRB- was quaking in his boots .
It might have been the first thing he ever produced .
` Space Oddity ' was this strange hybrid song .
-LRB- Keyboardist -RRB- Rick Wakeman went out to buy a little Stylophone for seven shillings from a small shop on the corner where Trident Studios was .
With that and all the string arrangements , it 's like a semi-orchestral piece . ''
In 2009 , a sound-a-like version was used in commercials for Lincoln automobiles .
This version was by the American singer-songwriter Cat Power , the stage name of Charlyn `` Chan '' Marshall .
An early version of this song is performed by David Bowie in Love You Till Tuesday , a promotional film made in 1969 which was designed to showcase the talents of Bowie .
You can watch it here .
