This song has nothing to do with the Metallica song of the same name .
It is , however , one of The Shirelles ' biggest hits , being their fourth Top-40 in a career total of 12 .
`` Mama Said '' was a product of the Brill Building/1650 Broadway -LRB- see our interview with Toni Wine for more on that -RRB- `` girl group '' era , when songs were cranked out music factories in New York City .
Various sources conflict , so we 'll just say that The Shirelles ' had a Shrodinger 's chance of actually being produced by Phil Spector , may have one time been in the orbit of Atlantic Records , and the song `` Mama Said '' was probably written by either Willie Denson , Luther Dixon , Burt Bacharach , or Hal David , or any combination thereof.To give you an idea of how scattered music research can be , The Shirelles started out signed to Tiara Records by Florence Greenberg , who sold Tiara , Shirelles and all , to Decca Records .
They then jumped to Scepter Records , also founded by Florence Greenberg , who rode Shirelles 'til her retirement when she sold Scepter to Springboard International , and then later Springboard International 's catalog was bought by Gusto Records .
So that 's some five different companies you can license this song from .
That 's not counting the covers by the likes of Dionne Bromfield and Amy Winehouse .
We give up on trying to peg authorship on a song at this point and declare that it grew on a tree .
Amy Winehouse 's teenage goddaughter Dionne Bromfield covered the song in 2009 taking it to # 43 on the UK singles chart .
Two years later Winehouse 's last appearance on stage , three days before she passed away , featured her supporting Dionne in a performance of this song at London 's Roundhouse .
Of course , `` Mama Said '' is still very much alive and well on the radio oldies ' circuit , and has appeared in countless film and TV soundtracks , including commercials .
It 's a special favorite amongst chick flicks , with its most prominent use being in the soundtrack to One Fine Day .
Another memorable usage is in the second episode of the second season of the original The Tracey Ullman Show , in the sketch titled `` Drugs and Guns , '' in which Julie Kavner is a pharmacist bent on committing suicide after closing hours right when a robber -LRB- played by Dan Castellaneta -RRB- tries to rob the place .
They end up singing it .
