This song was commissioned by the BBC for their coverage of the 2012 Olympics .
Elbow were asked after their `` One Day Like This '' track was featured in the BBC 's coverage of the 2008 Beijing Olympics .
The full song lasts six and a half minutes , but it was written in such a way so that it could be divided into different minute or two long elements for use over both winning and losing footages .
Garvey does n't sing on this song , instead Elbow got an especially assembled gospel choir to provide the vocals .
He told The Independent : `` I knew I wanted to get my ego out of the way , so I told them that I was n't going to sing on it .
It 's not an Elbow song ; it 's an Olympics theme song and it has to sound like it belongs to everybody .
I think having the gospel choir on there helps give it that `` everyman '' feel .
The choir was specially assembled for us , and we recorded them at Abbey Road in Studio 2 .
That 's The Beatles ' old studio , which was great . ''
Frontman Guy Garvey told The Independent how the lyrics were inspired by seeing Elbow 's bassist , Pete Turner , capturing his baby daughter 's first steps on video .
The singer explained : `` He 's holding the camera , but he 's also got his arms outstretched and little Martha staggers from her mum Ruth over to him .
Just as she reaches Pete , she goes ` Dada ! '
loud and clear .
You can see Ruth 's face behind her , and she says ' I do n't believe it !
` That was very touching for me to watch .
I love all three of them so much , and I realised that all of the elements I was looking for were there in that piece of film .
The song 's about putting your hopes in someone , the physical aspect of human endeavour and pushing yourself to do something you could n't do before . ''
The orchestration is provided by the BBC Philharmonic and was recorded at the Media City in Manchester .
Garvey told The Independent : `` Nick Ingman , who we 'd worked with before , helped us with the arrangement .
I 'd sing him a violin line down the phone , or mark out a part on the piano with tape and play it to him about seven times slower than it needed to be . ''
