This was originally recorded by the Sutherland Brothers on their Lifeboat album in 1972 .
It was written by their bassist Gavin Sutherland .
Rod Stewart 's cover in 1975 bought the group to prominence and they released a couple of UK Top 40 hits the following year : `` Arms Of Mary -LRB- # 5 -RRB- and `` Secrets '' -LRB- # 35 -RRB- .
Other acts who have covered this include Robin Trower -LRB- 1976 -RRB- , Joan Baez -LRB- 1977 -RRB- and Smokie -LRB- 2001 -RRB- .
The Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section backed Aretha Franklin on many of her early hits .
They also recorded with The Staple Singers , Wilson Pickett and many other Soul music luminaries , so when Rod Stewart traveled to Alabama to record this song , he was surprised at what he saw .
Muscle Shoals bass player David Hood , who owned the studio with three other members of the rhythm section , told us : `` Rod , I think , was a little intimidated by our track record at the time .
When he first came in and saw us , he asked Tom Dowd , well , where 's the band ?
And Tom said , ` That 's the band . '
He thought that they were trying to pull something on him , because he 'd seen these white guys sitting out there at the instruments .
He thought the band that he was coming to record with was Aretha Franklin 's band and was gon na be a bunch of black guys .
So he was suspicious of us from the start .
But he was also , I think , intimidated ; once he found out who we were and what we had done , he was intimidated by that .
He did n't really want to sing in front of us at first .
` Sailing ' was a huge international hit .
I do n't think it was that big a hit in the States , but internationally it was a huge record .
They played it before all the soccer matches , the World Cup and everything .
It was a big , big hit for Rod .
And that record , Atlantic Crossing , was a big point in his career , because it opened him up to more of a solo thing .
Before , he 'd been a solo artist , but it all sounded like the Faces and that kind of stuff . ''
Stewart related to the song 's theme of homesickness -LRB- the high rate of tax in the UK had forced him to move to America -RRB- and he recorded his version at Muscle Shoals Sound Studios in Muscle Shoals , Alabama with a choir assembled by Bob Crewe , the Four Seasons ' producer .
It became his third UK chart-topper and the following year , it was revived following it 's use as the theme music for a BBC TV documentary series about the HMS Ark Royal , this time peaking at # 3 .
The combined sales of the 2 releases meant this is Stewart 's biggest ever selling single in the UK with 955,111 copies sold .
Stewart confessed in a 2010 interview with Mail on Sunday 's Live Magazine that he suffers from nerves when he has to perform live or in the studio , and always has a drink before hitting the stage or laying down vocal tracks .
However , he had to record ` Sailing ' completely sober because there was no alcohol available at the studio in Alabama .
Said Stewart : `` It 's the only song I ever recorded without a drink inside me .
My thing was always to have a little tipple before I sang ; even now I 'll have a Bacardi and Coke before I go on stage .
It just helps.But ` Sailing ' was recorded in Muscle Shoals , which was a dry area .
The producer Tommy Dowd woke me up at ten in the morning saying , ` Get down here in half an hour ; we 've mixed the track and need the vocal . '
I was like , ` You 're joking , recording at 10.30 in the morning .
I need a drink to calm the old nerves ' .
I was stuffed , because there was nothing to be had anywhere and I was terrified to sing without one .
But I did and it turned out to be one of the biggest ones I ever made . ''
