The original R&B version of this song was intended to be Rowland 's first single release from her Ms. Kelly album , but instead `` Like This '' was released .
Her album Ms. Kelly , originally intended as a collection of ballads , was released in 2007 , but due to it 's poor chart performance a re-worked version with some new songs added was released the following year .
In the same Daily Mail interview Kelly Rowland explained : `` This album has taken so long because I needed everything to be right , from the songs to the packaging .
I knew what I wanted-and the original version was too mid-tempo .
I got letters from fans saying they wanted more up-tempo songs , so I went back and made sure there were more upbeat tracks .
I want my record to be played in clubs . ''
Rowland recalled in an interview with ilikemusic.com laying down this track : `` I had a good time .
I was in the studio with Scott Storch and we wanted to have a party record , a record that 'd make you get up and dance .
So we literally went out and we went to a club and partied and we got a little inspiration , then went back into the studio and wrote the song in an hour , then we left and came back the next day and recorded the song . ''
This was given a dance makeover by the Brighton production team Freemasons .
Kelly told the Daily Mail January 4 , 2008 : `` I heard how great Freemasons were because they also worked with Beyoncé .
They gave ` Work ' a new lease of life . ''
The re-mixed version was released as a single in some territories in 2008 .
Pop Justice asked Rowland if this song is about sex .
She replied : `` Oh no , it 's actually very innocent .
All I 'm saying is do n't come around if you 're not going to live up to all your talk and as you know , some guys are just full of talk . ''
The ex-Destiny 's Child singer then admitted that maybe the words are a little aggressive before adding , `` It 's just a woman saying you ca n't catch me easy and you have to put in the work .
It 's about putting in work - that 's it , of course . ''
