English singer-songwriter Olly Murs ' first single from his sophomore album finds him continuing with his familiar reggae-pop sound .
The song was premiered on The Chris Moyles Show on July 7 , 2011 .
The song was Murs ' second UK chart-topper , arriving at # 1 just shy of a year after his debut single `` Please Do n't Let Me Go . ''
It also reached the peak position in several European countries including Germany , Poland and Switzerland .
This is the only song Murs did not co-write for In Case You Did n't Know .
`` It was a curveball and nothing like the album , '' he told Music Week .
`` But I loved the production and the writers wrote it for me . ''
Olly Murs discussed the song 's meaning with Artist Direct : `` I believe the song is about a relationship that 's going sour , '' he said .
`` It 's not feeling as great as it did before .
You play that one record fell in love with on repeat , and you remember the good times .
It makes you want to dance again and get closer .
You feel that love again .
That 's how I feel when I sing the song .
That 's how I interpret it . ''
The song features Brighton-based Hip-Hop duo Rizzle Kicks , who comprise Jordan `` Rizzle '' & Harley `` Sylvester . ''
They debuted on the UK singles chart in July 2011 with their song `` Down With The Trumpets . ''
Jordan said to 4Music of the collaboration : `` The beat 's wicked .
We were a bit apprehensive that it would be like ... more poppy , that it was n't really our style , but then he played the beat .
It 's kind of got some hip hop vibes . ''
The song was written by Alex Smith , Samuel Preston , Jim Eliot and Rizzle Kicks .
Does the name Samuel Preston ring a bell with you ?
He was the frontman of the Ska-Pop group The Ordinary Boys whose appearance on Celebrity Big Brother and relationship with fellow contestant Chantelle Houghton made him a fixture for a time in UK tabloids .
The song was remixed for the American market , removing Rizzle Kicks ' contribution and including a new verse from Philadelphia Rap-Pop pairing Chiddy Bang .
This new version was released as Murs ' debut single in the United States on May 14 , 2012 .
