Joe Jonas ' debut single from his first-ever solo album was released to radio on June 3 , 2011 and made available for purchase digitally ten days later .
He penned the song with Chris Brown , which surprised some as their backgrounds on the face of it are very different .
However , Brown and Jonas both started out as teen stars before graduating to more adult material .
The song came together one day in 2010 when Joe was working in the studio with Chris Brown .
Brian Kennedy , who has worked with Breezy on several of his previous hits including `` Forever , '' `` Pass Out '' and `` Should 've Have Kissed You '' stopped by the studio , and Brown asked him what new beats he 'd had stored on his laptop .
Kennedy whipped out this track , which he 'd built from scratch while working in Nashville .
The pair went for it instantly .
The song 's music video finds Joe looking upset over the betrayal he faces at the hands of his object of affection .
He told MTV News it took a lot of work to get together : `` The video kind of came together with a concept I had using a house as a metaphor to show destruction of a heart or of the mind , '' he explained .
`` The first director did n't work out .
I kept fighting to find the right treatment . ''
Said Joe : `` Working on this album has been a rewarding but intense experience .
` See No More ' especially carries a lot of personal emotions with it and I am hoping people listening to it will get a sense of where I 'm coming from with this new sound . ''
Lyrically , the song is about the memory of a bad relationship that the narrator ca n't quite get over .
Joe explained to E !
News at the 2011 Billboard Music Awards : `` The song is about a relationship ending and you 're trying to get over it , but at the same time you 've got these mixed feelings ... you 're fighting everything of seeing that person .
It sounds like a sad song , but it carries a cool beat to it . ''
Why did Joe pick this as his first solo single ?
He explained to Digital Spy .
`` I was actually finishing up my record when I wrote ` See No More ' .
The album was almost complete , but then I got the opportunity to write with Chris Brown .
We wrote the song and then by a majority vote from my team we decided to go with it as the lead single .
We felt it had a pretty big chorus and it was a strong way to come out and introduce what I was doing now compared to the sound with the Jonas Brothers . ''
