This song was digitally previewed on February 1 , 2011 via online streaming .
It was the first track from Thursday 's sixth album , No Devolución to be previewed and it was chosen first as it deemed to be the most radically different song off the record when compared to their older material .
Frontman Geoff Rickly explained to Spin magazine : `` This is a really different record and we thought we should just come out of the gates with a really different song .
If our die hard fans heard the heavy songs first , like the heavy , passionate ` Past and Future Ruins ' or ` Turnpike Divides , ' is it false advertising , basically ?
It 's like a warning for our fans : You 're not going to get the record you think you 're going to get . ''
Geoff Rickly told the story of the song to AOL : `` When the band first played me this song , I was very conflicted about using it for Thursday .
I 'm the one in the band that always wants to write experimental , even atonal , hardcore songs .
So this song felt way too ` pop ' for me .
After a while I loosened up and wrote a song about all the chemical reactions and physical phenomenon involved in attraction and how often we mistake those feelings for love .
Hearing it now , I 'm so proud of the song .
It 's one of the best vocal performances I 've ever done in the studio .
I remember Dave Fridmann , our producer , saying that it sounded auto-tuned after I finished the take we used . ''
Rickly admitted to Spin that initially he did n't think the song would work for Thursday : `` We started writing it during our last record and I said , ` Nah , it 's too pop .
I do n't wan na play that .
I do n't even know what to do with that . '
I was very uptight about it , especially since the only stuff I was listening to at the time was Envy and F -- ked Up .
I still wanted Thursday to be the band that we were when we played the basements and VFW Halls .
`` However , the singer was eventually swayed in the studio .
`` This is the pop moment on the record , and we 're not embarrassed of it , '' he explained .
`` It was really fun to write a pop song and not be writing it because we think we might have some chance at getting a radio hit or because our label wanted us to .
It 's cause we do n't give a f -- k about punk kids telling us it 's not punk to write a pop song . ''
