Benatar wrote this song with her guitarist and future husband Neil Giraldo .
The song deals with trials and tribulations of past relationships and how they affect the one you 're in now .
Have n't we all had to tend the emotional scars left behind from whoever got there first ?
In the case of Giraldo and Benatar , things worked out quite well : they got married in a cow pasture in Maui in 1982 , and have been married ever since .
They 've also continued their musical partnership as well , with Giraldo producing all of Benatar 's next albums .
Precious Time cracked the # 1 spot on the album charts for a week , and helped establish Benatar as an '80s icon .
A former bank clerk and singing waitress , she was a classically trained singer who could rock the spandex and big jewelry , making her an MTV favorite as well as a mainstay on Pop radio .
Neil Giraldo tells us that he knew early on that this song had hit potential .
He explained : `` I thought it was deep in a really good way .
I think that it was a commercial hit , but I love the expression of the melody .
It gave a lot of room for the vocal to be powerful .
And then when we rehearsed the song , that 's where I came up with that little guitar riff , which is the signature to that break between the slow part and the fast part .
When I hit that in rehearsal and I put the song way up tempo - because the song was a ballad - I found I hit that , then I knew , I went , ` Oh , we got something now .
This is going to work . '
I knew it right then we had it . ''
Giraldo and Benatar were dating when they wrote this song , which was early in their musical partnership .
In our interview with Neil Giraldo , he explained : `` That was a song that Patricia started first .
I mean , I start probably 93 % of them , and she 'll jump in after I get it started .
But she actually started writing that on an airplane .
And then she put some words together , and she said , ` Here , try to do something with this thing .
` Actually she slipped the words under the door of our music room in this little house we had .
We wrote that I think in 1980 .
Even though we could have put it on Crimes of Passion , we ended up putting it on Precious Time instead .
But she put the words under the door because she was too embarrassed to let me see the words face to face.Then she had a little bit of an idea of a melody , so I took a little bit of what that was , and I wrote it on piano in our little music room .
My favorite guitar I had in the room at the time fell and busted while I was writing , and busted the top of the neck off it .
So that was like a curse .
And then when we went to record it , we had everything but the last verse , and then I just wrote the words for the last verse in the studio while we were recording it .
So that 's how that one goes . ''
Hinting at the personal nature of this song , Benatar told Songwriter Connection magazine in 1984 : `` Sometimes I really hate singing in the first person - it 's so personal sometimes ... I do mostly observational lyric but if it 's directly from something that happened , I ca n't stand to sing it in first person .
I 'd rather sing it as we or they or you , or something else . ''
