The Highwayman was written by Alfred Noyes -LRB- 1880-1958 -RRB- .
Although it was published early on in his career - in a 1907 anthology - it is probably the best known of his works , and is widely admired for its imagery , and some supposedly hidden moral , but in essence it is a rather sordid tale .
The highwayman - who is not named - keeps a night time assignation with his lover , Bess , the daughter of an inn keeper , and tells her of a robbery he plans to commit later that night .
They are overheard by an ostler who betrays them out of jealousy.The next day , a troop of soldiers appear at the inn , but their behaviour is more reminscent of a mob than of a disciplined fighting force .
The inn keeper is abused , his daughter is tied up and gagged , and there are overtones of sexual abuse , though this is not stated explicitly , probably because of publishing restrictions.As the soldiers lie in wait for her lover to return , Bess manages not quite to free herself but to reach one of their guns , and ends up shooting herself dead .
The highwayman is alerted , and rides off .
The next day he learns of her death , but is hunted down and killed by the same soldiers , possibly having lost the will to live , and thus the two lovers are reunited for all eternity.This poem has a theme that was already well worn by the turn of the Twentieth Century ; the forces of law and order are demonised , while a vagabond who robs travellers at gunpoint and would probably not hesitate to shoot and perhaps kill innocent people to fill his purse , is painted as a hero of the night .
Even the inn keeper 's daughter was no better than a mobster 's moll , but such are the follies of both literature and music .
The Noyes poem has been set to music before , but the Loreena McKennitt version - which includes most but not all of this very lengthy poem - is probably as good as a work like this will ever get .
Foolish romanticising aside!The poem was given an entirely different treatment from the point of view of the highwayman by Wishbone Ash with `` Stand And Deliver '' .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for above 2 -RRB-
