This is the opening track from And If Our God Is For Us ... , the seventh studio album by Chris Tomlin .
The CCM and worship singer-songwriter recorded the disc at his home base outside Atlanta , having renovated a cabin into a studio next to his house .
The record was produced by Ed Cash -LRB- Matthew West , Bebo Norman , David Crowder Band -RRB- and Dan Muckala -LRB- Amy Grant , MercyMe , The Afters -RRB- .
Chris explained the song 's meaning : `` The chorus of this song makes some pretty bold claims : Who you love , I 'll love .
How you serve , I 'll serve .
Where you go I 'll go .
Even if I lose my life I 'll follow you .
While those words might be a true expression of the heart , when we hear them coming out of our own mouths it should still be a little sobering .
Are we really considering the implications of what we 're saying ?
Or are we just speaking with bravado the way the Apostle Peter did in his early days of following Jesus ?
After all , he was the brash one , the impulsive one who was always making those sorts of big , bold statements .
He told Jesus things like `` Even if I have to die with you , I will never disown you . ''
But when Jesus was arrested , those claims fell apart .
Peter ran and hid and even renounced Jesus .
Thankfully , that failure was n't the end of Peter 's story .
In time , God 's grace and power would transform him into a man whose boldness was based on God 's strength rather than his own .
But it cost him something to get to that point of understanding what following Jesus was really all about.Mark chapter 8 contains what must have been one of the most difficult and pivotal points in Peter 's journey as a disciple , and it illuminates something about our own hearts as well .
In this passage Jesus is explaining plainly to the twelve how he was soon going to have to suffer and die .
Peter takes him aside and rebukes him for saying such things .
Jesus responds with his shocking `` Get behind me , Satan , '' and then explains : `` You do not have in mind the things of God , but the things of men . ''
Then Jesus gathers the crowd around him and elaborates : `` If anyone would come after me , he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me .
For whoever wants to save his life will lose it , but whoever loses his life for me and for the gospel will save it .
`` Jesus knew beforehand the road of suffering he would walk in faithful obedience .
He was explaining God 's plan of redemption to his followers .
But Peter -- and probably the other disciples too -- already had set in their own minds a different version of how God 's salvation for Israel was going to unfold .
Most likely they were still dreaming of the day when Jesus -- with the twelve of them on his right and his left commanding the thousands that would rally to their cause -- would take up the sword to drive the Romans out of Jerusalem and restore all things to their rightful place .
At the very least , the idea of a suffering and dying messiah was n't part of Peter 's plans .
When he had signed up to follow the Christ , it certainly was n't for that.That 's probably why Peter pulled his master aside and rebuked him for his talk of being humiliated and put to death .
You have to wonder if Peter 's rebuke of Jesus was born out of fear .
Because what Jesus was revealing was threatening the dream that Peter had invested his hope in .
And yet , what Peter had in mind was not what God had in mind .
How often do we find ourselves in similar positions -- feeling disappointed , or angry or scared because God 's plans turned out to be something very different from our own expectations?In time Peter did respond in the only way a disciple can , by laying down his own ambitions and embracing what it meant to truly follow .
At the end he even willingly gave his life for Christ .
But I think the hard work of divestment from the things and hopes and dreams of this world was already complete by the time Peter allowed himself to be nailed to a physical cross .
I think the hardest step for Peter must have come the moment right after this conversation in Mark 8 , because that was the moment he realized this business of being a disciple , of following Jesus , was not about seeing his own agenda accomplished and his own dreams fulfilled .
It was about seeing them crucified , and surrendering them to God 's greater purposes instead.Isn ' t that still what it means for anyone to follow Jesus ?
It means that we lay down our own agendas and hopes and dreams , and faithfully obey day by day .
It 's a daily dying to self -- the crucifying of our own petty and self-centered desires so that we might more clearly reflect Christ to the people around us .
In the end , it 's not about bravado and bold statements .
It 's about simple , ongoing obedience to the words of our Lord .
To say ' I will follow ' is really not so different from saying ` Help me every hour to die to my own desires , Jesus , so that you can live more fully through me . ' ''
