This is the first single from West Coast MC Snoop Dogg 's album More Malice , the follow-up to his 2010 Malice N Wonderland record .
The song is a collaboration with New York hip hop artist Kid Cudi .
The song was initially earmarked for Malice N Wonderland , but did n't get onto the final track listing .
`` It did n't make that album because of deadlines and it was n't in the right shape , '' Diplo explained .
`` But they liked the track and really wanted to use it , so I did some more work on it and that 's why it 's just coming out now . ''
Snoop explained the song 's meaning to MTV News : `` It 's basically a song talking about what we love .
It 's a hard world we live in .
Sometimes the only way we can get away is through that tree .
We search the whole globe trying to find happiness , and sometimes , it sits right there in front of us in that tree . ''
Diplo , who has also worked with M.I.A. and Santigold , produced the song .
He told MTV News that originally he had no idea the two rappers were even recording the track .
The producer recalled : `` I 've known Snoop 's manager Ted Chung for a while and I actually met Snoop through the Swedish singer Robyn at the Grammys last year .
We exchanged information because he 'd heard of me and I kept in touch .
When Ted came around asking for beats , I did n't have any so I gave him some small loops and Ted actually just looped the loops over again . ''
Diplo did n't hear anything more about the beats until a recording session with Kid Cudi .
`` Cudi was like , ' I just did a track with Snoop over your beat . '
And I was like , ` What are you talking about ? ' ''
Diplo said .
`` I had no idea that Ted had taken the small loops and they 'd rapped on it , so Ted eventually sent me back a vocal and I kind of constructed a track around that . ''
When asked by MTV News about the concept of the song 's music video in which he and Kid Cudi star , Snoop compared it to Romper Room , the famed television series aimed at preschoolers known for its organized-yet-free-for-all episodes .
`` It 's kind of hard to explain , '' he explained .
`` It 's like Romper Room .
It 's kiddish .
It 's really fun .
Me and him like to have fun , so we wanted the video to depict that .
It 's not a real serious video .
There 's no champagne room .
There 's no money being thrown or a bunch of girls .
It 's just me and him having a good time . ''
