This is the second single and title track from American country music singer Toby Keith 's fourteenth studio album .
Keith penned the song with Nashville songwriter Rivers Rutherford .
Keith discussed the original inspiration for this song with The Boot : `` Rivers Rutherford was on the road with me a year ago in Buffalo , and we were trying to figure out what are we going to do next .
I said , ' I have n't written a Western themed song in fifteen years ; I want to do an attitude song where a drifter , instead of riding a horse , is riding a motorcycle and make it Western theme but bring to modern day time .
In the name of love , this drifter in the matter of days meets his soul mate , and she 's wilder and crazier and maybe even meaner than he is .
And you tell what goes on .
It happens fast .
He 's probably been drifting all over the world on his motorcycle for years and probably encounters all kinds of different relationships , but this one was different .
He met his soul mate . '
And Rivers said , ` OK .
Where are we going to go with this song ? '
I said , ` Well , it 's that moment where Thelma & Louise at the end of the movie go forward , where Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid jump , and things like that .
One of those moments where cards are on the table , bluff 's over , how much do you love me , bullets are in the gun , can we pull the trigger or are we going to get shot ?
Are we going to shoot or are we going to give ourselves up ?
How far are we going to go ? '
And we wrote with that whole thing in mind .
I love this song . ''
Keith told the story of the song in a cut by cut on his website .
He explained : `` When we started writing this idea , which I 'd had for a while , we thought we would do five or six verses and just tag the last line of each verse with ` bullets in the gun . '
But then we came up with that fantastic chorus , which is just so strong .
Growing up in Oklahoma , playing shows in New Mexico and Texas and being around the real cowboy thing , I 've always been a huge fan of the Wild West .
We 've modernized it here -- the guy 's not riding a horse , he 's riding a motorcycle .
He 's lost and lonely and riding around trying to find his place in the world .
And when he finds it , she 's a renegade just like him .
He 's got that cold place in his soul , that missing piece .
And she 's holding it .
They 're soul mates .
He really does n't commit the robbery , but he loves her so much he lets her do it .
She 's tired of being treated bad , so that 's her jailbreak .
She gets out .
The cards are on the table and the bullets in the gun is Wild Bill Hickok .
There 's no more gambling , no more bluffing ; it 's do or die and we 're settling it .
I never thought it could be a single , but with the response we 've gotten from radio , it looks like it 's going to be . ''
