Hugh Laurie is best known to most people for portraying Dr. Gregory House , the protagonist/antagonist of the Fox medical drama House .
Laurie is also an enthusiastic and keen musician , playing the piano , guitar , drums , harmonica and saxophone .
He has displayed his musical talents on several episodes of House , as well as on previous shows he starred in such as A Bit Of Fry & Laurie .
In 2010 Laurie played piano as a special guest on Meatloaf 's track `` If I Ca n't Have You .
`` After signing a contract with Warner Bros. , Laurie released a blues album Let Them Talk , which was released initially in France on April 18 , 2011 and later in the UK on May 9th .
The opening track of the record is this American folksong of anonymous origin .
The song 's title is derived from St. James Hospital in London , a religious foundation for the treatment of leprosy .
It was closed in 1532 when Henry VIII acquired the land to build St. James Palace .
The lyrics tell the tale of a man explaining to the singer/narrator , at a bar , how he went down to St. James Infirmary and tragically found his girl -LRB- the so-called `` baby '' -RRB- dead .
`` Saint James Infirmary '' is based on an old English tune , `` The Unfortunate Rake , '' that made its way over to America and was reborn .
During an interview with Radio Times , Laurie was asked if he made this song the album 's cornerstone as he likes the parallel with his own professional and personal journey ?
The English actor replied : `` I do like that parallel .
But I 'm gon na come clean and say I 've loved and been playing ` Saint James Infirmary ' long before I knew anything of its origins.The thing is , I was quite aware that one of the expectations was that on this album I was gon na hide .
I would probably have expected it myself : with a bit of help and a bit of artful management , you can surround yourself with brilliant players , and you can get someone to Autotune your voice - and have someone protect you .
You can hide behind great players and great technology .
You can make a perfectly serviceable piece of music without expressing yourself .
And I thought , no .
I 'm not gon na do that .
I 'm going to come out naked and just have the piano and there 's no Pro-Tools jiggey-pokery going on .
It 's just me and a piano .
`` He added that this was the attraction in recording the album with minimal musical adornment , and in beginning it with this song .
`` That was the idea in my head .
I wanted to be as naked and as vulnerable as I could be . ''
Louis Armstrong made the song famous in his influential 1928 recording and another notable recording was by Van Morrison on the 2003 Grammy-nominated album , What 's Wrong With This Picture ? .
Other performers of the tune include Cab Calloway , King Oliver , Artie Shaw , Big Mama Thornton , Billie Holiday , Janis Joplin , The Doors , Paul Butterfield , The Animals , and The White Stripes .
