Chris Brown wrote this heartbreaking tune with Eric Bellinger -LRB- Ne-Yo , Justin Bieber -RRB- and , Amber Streeter -LRB- Kelly Rowland , Alicia Keys -RRB- .
It was produced by RoccStar , Darell Harts , and G'harah `` PK '' Degeddingseze .
Bellinger told Billboard magazine how it was inspired by the King of Pop : `` We were in the studio every day for about two months , '' he recalled .
`` RoccStar and PK played the beat and I immediately thought about Michael Jackson .
So they said , ` Go in the booth and do some Michael-type stuff . '
I was just coming off the top of my head and was able to come up with something .
Michael could do no wrong , so that was what my parents allowed me to listen to while I was growing up ; and then Chris put his spin on it and kept it real and relevant . ''
Brown co-directed the video with Sylvan White , who was behind the lens for the 2007 movie , Stomp the Yard .
He explained to Billboard magazine : `` I wanted to go with a film director to set the mood and bring that artistic side to it .
I 'm not one who always loves to stand in front of the camera with flashy cars and big booty girls all the time .
It 's cool and I do features on raps -LRB- laughs -RRB- .
But I like to showcase a different side .
I tweeted the other day that chivalry ai n't dead .
What that meant was , in this video , you 'll see me taking care of the girl , doing gentlemanly things - showing another side of me .
I know my female audience sees it .
But the naysayers might say , ` No , that 's not him . ' ''
The song lead Brown 's sixth album , X. `` For the first single , I wanted to go more nostalgic , bring Stevie Wonder , Michael Jackson , Sam Cooke to it , but also bring a new sound to what my audience and fans are listening to , '' he told MTV News .
`` For this album , I wanted to have the same mentality as I did with the first album , '' he added , `` me being green , me not thinking I know what 's hot and what 's next , me just being Chris Brown .
I think this will show my vocal ability a lot more .
I 've developed a falsetto , I can sing at a higher register , and I can elaborate more on my skill . ''
