This is the third single from American rapper Diddy 's sixth studio album , Last Train to Paris , which he recorded with his group Dirty Money .
Diddy debuted the song with the Dirty Money duo Dawn Richard and Kalenna for the first time on the ninth season of American Idol .
The official remix features rappers Rick Ross & Nicki Minaj , and the second official remix features Ross again , this time with T.I. .
This was the first time that Rico Love had worked with Diddy and he was struggling to come up with anything that met the rap mogul 's approval .
`` I really looked up to Diddy and when we went in the studio he had me stuck in that studio for 12 hours .
Everything I did , he did n't like , '' Love recalled to Billboard magazine .
`` He heard all these things about Rico Love , how Rico Love is this illest and is about to be the next dude in the game , but he was n't impressed with anything I was doing .
At the end of the night he told me , ` Just go home man .
Maybe this time we could n't get it , but next time . '
`` However Love was determined to stay at the studio until he 'd penned a hit for Diddy .
He decided to dip into some beats that Danja had sent him and eventually penned this song at four in the morning right before he caught a flight .
`` He played it back 10 times and said , `` I like this one , '' recalled Love .
`` I just remember being so focused and determined on giving him a hit record because he 's somebody I 've idolized my whole life .
I was n't going to go home because he said to go home .
I was going to stay and give him a hit record . ''
Rico Love co-penned this tune , and the R&B singer-songwriter has more songs on Last Train to Paris .
His previous writing credits include Beyoncé 's `` Sweet Dreams '' and Usher 's `` Hey Daddy -LRB- Daddy 's Home -RRB- . ''
`` I usually come in the studio and hear the beat , '' Rico said of his songwriting process to MTV News .
`` I do n't write anything down .
Even when I MC , I do n't write any lyrics down .
I go in the booth and sing the song how I think the artists should sound .
It takes only like 10 , 15 minutes , sometimes less than that .
It 's usually the first idea I have that comes out being the record .
I do n't try to over-think it .
I feel music should be fun .
It should n't be a math problem .
You wan na make sure it 's natural , organic . ''
The song 's music video uses the second official remix version and Rick Ross and T.I. appear in the clip along with Swizz Beatz .
