This is the first single by singer-songwriter Norah Jones , from her fifth album , ... Little Broken Hearts .
Jones premiered the song on February 28 , 2012 via her Facebook page on the SoundCloud and it was released on March 6 , 2012 .
The song surprised Jones and Burton from the moment they wrote it .
`` We both were like ` Oh my God , this is awesome ' at first and then went away and listened over the weekend , explained Jones .
`` We did n't know if it fit on the record .
But I could n't stop singing it , and neither could Brian .
Eventually we decided it was too much fun , it had to be there . ''
... Little Broken Hearts was entirely produced by Danger Mouse -LRB- real name : Brian Burton -RRB- and recorded at Burton 's Los Angeles studio during the fall of 2011 .
The record was co-written by Jones and Burton , with the pair handling the majority of the instrumentals .
Jones teamed up with the producer after she contributed vocals to his Rome project with Daniele Luppi .
Jones and Burton were about halfway through recording Little Broken Hearts when they recorded this song .
Whilst musically it 's one of the few upbeat tunes on the set , lyrically it finds Jones singing of emancipating herself from a relationship and finding that she 's better off alone .
She told the story of the song to Spinner : `` When we started doing ` Happy Pills , ' he leaned over to me - I think I was getting grumpy waiting for lunch ; we were always starving when we got there -- we were just kind of waiting around to eat , and he looked over at me and starting going , ` Nah nah nah nah ' just to kind of mess with me , I think .
I said , ` Well that sounds nice , ' and we started working on it .
It was just really happy sounding , which was a little different from the rest of the album - not that the album is depressing , but the songs are a little darker on the rest of the album .
It was very happy and it would n't get out of our heads , so we decided to sort of make the lyrics a little more on the dark side , maybe even mean or kind of silly , but in a mean way .
It kind of was a nice juxtaposition between the happy music and the darker lyrics . ''
