Hang Cool Teddy Bear is the eleventh studio album by American singer Meat Loaf .
The disc 's concept is based on a short story by Meat Loaf 's screenwriter friend Kilian Kerwin , in which a dying soldier sees his life flash forward rather than back .
This is the album 's opening track , and it sets up its central theme .
Meat Loaf explained at a London listening party : `` It 's the story of a soldier .
He 's been in an unspecified battle , and he 's lying face down on the ground .
They talk of seeing your life flash backwards when you 're about to die , but this guy 's life flashes forwards instead .
He ca n't get up .
He tries to crawl and he 's unable to do that , too .
The songs are about the different scenarios he finds himself in as his life goes by .
At the conclusion ... well , let 's just say it 's not a Hollywood ending . ''
In an interview with Billboard magazine , Meat Loaf dismissed some comparisons that have been made between Hang Cool Teddy Bear and his Bat Out of Hell series .
`` Sonically , this record is so far removed from any album I 've ever done before , and I wanted it that way , '' he explained .
`` I wanted it to be more organic .
I wanted the songs to be about a human condition as opposed to always attempting to get laid , 'cause that 's basically what -LRB- ` Bat ' partner Jim -RRB- Steinman writes about .
Every song with him is about the anticipation of getting laid or wanting to get laid , which is not a bad thing , but everything is about sex .
This one is not .
This is about the human condition .
The lyrical structures , the character structures , are completely different on this .
It 's an emotional wave that rides a different side of the brain .
It really is a departure . ''
The singer told The London Times April 9 , 2010 : `` The anti-war people will probably say this is an anti-war record , the pro-war people could probably say it 's pro-war .
But it 's not about a war , it 's about a human being and where he is ; the guy is keeping himself alive with these nightmarish events .
This entire record is the same character , so I sang with the attitude of someone who was 21 to 24 .
I had to forget anything I could have possibly learnt in the last 40 years . ''
