This song , from Neil Young 's grief-wracked album , is kind of a `` goodbye and good riddance '' to Woodstock Nation and all that it symbolized .
Though Neil Young had of course played at Woodstock and written the song of the same title , he was distanced from hippie culture by the dual deaths of Crazy Horse guitarist Danny Whitten and Young 's friend and roadie Bruce Berry , both from heroin overdoses .
Thus , Young is in the same category as Frank Zappa : both were idolized by hippie culture while openly loathing it .
Between recording and releasing the songs for Tonight 's the Night , Young toured with a scheme to distance himself from the material by putting on the persona of a sleazy nightclub emcee .
With his hair a mess , he 'd put on a seersucker jacket , patched jeans , and shades .
Then he 'd introduce himself to the audience : `` Welcome to Miami Beach ... Everything is cheaper than it looks . ''
The band would fill this out with plastic palm trees and wooden cigar store indians .
It just made the whole scene more surreal .
During the recording sessions for Tonight 's the Night , at Studio Instrument Rentals in Los Angeles , the musicians would show up in the evening , shoot pool and drink tequila until midnight , and then start recording .
Can you hear that result in this song?In fact , the whole album has kind of an improvised feel to it .
It 's full of flubbed lyrics , tilting harmonies , instruments wandering out of tune , and a kind of staggering pace .
The group was deep in mourning for Whitten and Berry , who had only died months before .
And you know Neil Young has never been shy about his feelings .
So this album has the raw power of emotion to it , and even though it is n't a fan favorite , you ca n't deny that it 's real .
Plus , this is an excellent song to bellow when you 're tripping home from the bar with your buddies .
In Neil Young : Long May You Run : The Illustrated History , Neil Young concludes , `` I 'm not a junkie and I wo n't even try it out to check out what it 's like .
But we all got high enough right out there on the edge where we felt wide-open to the whole mood .
It was spooky .
I probably felt this album more than anything else I 've ever done . ''
