This is the first single by Colombian pop rock singer-songwriter Shakira , from her seventh studio album , Sale el Sol -LRB- English : The Sun Comes Out -RRB- .
The song was released on September 1 , 2010 .
Merengue is a type of music and dance from Dominican Republic , which is popular all over Latin America .
It is named after the meringue , a sweet made from whipped egg whites and sugar though it is unclear as to why the music adopted the name of the dessert .
Rascal added that recording the song went smoothly , despite it being a last-minute idea .
He said : `` Nice girl to work with - it was easy .
It was one of those ones off the cuff , ` Oh do you want to work with Shakira , she 's in town ?
... Yeah ! ' ''
Rascal told Billboard magazine that he only joined Shakira in her studio for about an hour to work on the song , but that he was `` honored '' to contribute to it .
`` She 's a bit of a trendsetter - she does loads of different things on a major scale , '' he said .
`` You 'd expect her to use an American rapper -LSB- for the song -RSB- , but she chose me .
It meant a lot . ''
The song 's music video was shot in Barcelona using a handheld camera and shows Shakira , her crew and Dizzee Rascal capturing the true spirit of being ` loca ' in the streets of the Spanish city .
The Colombian songstress got herself in hot water during the shoot after she was filmed dancing in a public fountain with locals and riding a motorcycle without a helmet .
`` Barcelona is one of my favorite cities and has become a second home to me , '' said Shakira .
`` The video is just about having fun and being real in this amazing place with real people . ''
The song is a remake of El Cata 's merengue smash hit `` Loca Con Su Tiguere . ''
Two versions were recorded of the song - an English one featuring vocals from British rapper Dizzee Rascal and a Spanish version featuring El Cata .
Dizzee Rascal admitted on the BBC Newbeat program that this song is proof of his willingness to experiment .
Said the rapper : `` I know it sounds a bit mad now , but you 'll see it and see what 's going on .
It 's me doing something different man , on a merengue tip . ''
The song 's music video was filmed in Barcelona - as far as we know no meringues were involved .
While `` Loca '' is Dizzee Rascal 's first stab at Latin music , he told Billboard that he would have no problem working more closely with the genre in the future .
`` I 'd like to be in that Spanish market .
I got into the whole reggaeton thing when it came out , so I always wanted to get around to something like that , '' he said .
The song reached # 1 in several European countries including Italy , Spain and Switzerland .
Despite the contribution of Dizzee Rascal , it surprisingly failed to chart in the UK , probably because of low promotion given to the song on TV and music stations .
However , in the US it did better , becoming Rascal 's first song to reach the Hot 100 .
