This song was co-written by the Season 4 winner of American Idol , Carrie Underwood .
Lauren told Taste of Country that it really stood out to her as she looks `` up to her so much , '' adding `` It 's cool to have the opportunity to record a song she wrote . ''
Lauren explained the song title to Taste of Country : `` This young girl decides she 's going to run away with her boyfriend .
The chorus talks about how when you are young and in love , you do things that are n't always seen to be the smartest move .
I think that is so true !
The 18 inches represents the distance it is from your head to your heart .
They end up scraping by and get married .
The song talks about them wanting a child but yet they are just kids themselves .
They do have a baby , and it makes them grow up and they thank God for the 18 inches , which is also how long their baby was . ''
Speaking about the track in publicity materials , Lauren said the song 's storyline reminded her of a good friend of hers .
`` She got married when she was 17 , and she had a baby .
And they moved here , to Nashville , '' she explained .
`` Her husband is going to college and has a full-time job , and she stays at home with the baby , and she does n't know anyone here .
She moved here to support him .
That 's , like , the story of that song . ''
The song was released as the third single from Alaina 's debut album Wildflower .
`` I 've had co-writes go on other people 's albums before , but this will be my first single , '' said Underwood .
`` I 've never had that before .
It 's always been really cool when someone else wanted to record one of my songs that I helped write , but to actually possibly hear it on the radio at some point , that 's gon na be really cool , and Lauren is so amazing and does such a great job .
It 's so wonderful that that song found a home with her .
Even she and her mom , they 're like , ` This is our song .
Like , this is all about us . '
It just fits her really well .
`` The cut was released to radio on July 16 , 2012 .
