Frontman Caleb Followill discussed with the NME August 21 , 2010 this gently-paced acoustic country tribute to the band 's southern roots : `` That song came from Matt messing around on a little lap steel .
He played the melody to me and the first lyrics that came to mind were ` Come on down and dance , if you get the chance ... ' I think because we recorded the album in New York , we somehow rediscovered a bit of our country side , whereas if we 'd been in Nashville , where you 're surrounded by country music , that would 've never happened But we were like , let 's get a bit of fiddle on there , let 's have the pizza delivery guy in the studio singing the chorus with us .
We wanted it to have that kind of rootsy feel . ''
The southern-rock siblings -LRB- and their cousin -RRB- told the story of this song to The Music Fix : Caleb : I knew with `` Back Down South , '' I was so excited to record that song .
I did n't write one lyric to that song ; I free-flowed every bit of that .
But , Matthew , one day , we were in the rehearsal space and he had a lap steel .
Matthew : I brought one and I did n't know how to tune it or anything , but it was in the tuning and I played around for a while .
Then the guy kinda showed me how to do certain things -- So one of the first things I 've played on it.Caleb : Kinda went like , `` Berr , bah-bah , berr , buh-buh buhm . ''
And immediately I said , `` come out and dance , if you get the chance ... `` Matthew : And I was so excited and I knew it was so far away , but I could n't wait to show the guys that line !
I was so happy when I showed it to them , everybody immediately tried to start writing parts for it .
And that 's the best feeling ever.Nathan : It was just one of those , like Caleb said , we had a round of everyone singing it .
then kinda got distracted and played darts or whatever -- had a drink .
Matthew : It was one of the best times we 've ever had in the studio !
For some reason , we started drinking whiskey so early , at like right when we got there .
Like , `` hey !
Gon na take a shot ? ''
And everybody 's like , `` yeah ! ''
So , at the end of the night , we were like , let 's just sing some backup vocals in the end -- just sing what Caleb 's singing .
And twenty people -- all the crew , everybody that worked there -- we 're all in the room with a couple of mics .
Jared : I was actually out sick for a couple of days .
I was so depressed , sitting at home .
I could n't do anything .
But , they 'd send me e-mails of the songs !
And I 'd be like , `` ugh !
I wan na be there so bad ! ''
And then they sent me that and it was just like , `` why do n't you stab me in the back ! ''
I leave for 5 seconds and you guys have a pizza party on Friday !
Nathan : You know , I was glad for a song like `` Back Down South '' to make this record because we could have so easily gone in there and tried to give them six `` Sex on Fire '' 's and six `` Somebody '' 's .
It was good to see `` Back Down South '' on there because that was us going back to not only our roots as where we 're from , but also the type of band we 've been from day one !
