This is the title track of Celtic punk band Dropkick Murphys seventh studio album .
The song features NOFX vocalist Fat Mike , The Living End 's Chris Cheney and actor/comedian Lenny Clarke .
The song contains references to things that happened in Casey 's life as well as people 's names .
He told Artist Direct : `` It 's always nice to namedrop friends and family because they get so excited -- unless you 're taking a shot at them -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
I know some of the stories are embarrassing for myself .
There 's a line about pissing my friend 's couch , and that was something I did when I was 15 .
I woke up in the morning .
It was an L-shaped couch , and the kitchen was next to the living room .
I slept on the couch , and we 'd maybe drank a little too much and I had a little accident -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
I decided to move to the other side and take off all of my wet clothes so I woke up in the morning on the dry side of the couch with his parents looking at me .
It was a good morning -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
It was n't just a little awkward ... '' Going Out in Style debuted at # 6 on the Billboard 200 making it the Dopkicks ' first top 10 album .
The first week sales of 43,000 were also a career high .
Going Out in Style is a concept album , which takes the band 's own personal experiences and family folklore and rolls them into the story of a fictional character named Cornelius Larkin , who has passed away and is looking down on his own wake .
The songs detail the Irish immigrant to America 's life from beginning to close .
Singer/bassist Ken Casey told Billboard magazine he came up with the idea for the album while visiting a funeral home and walking in on a wake .
`` It made me think to connect the tale of this guy 's wake and all the stories leading up to it , '' he explained .
`` We saw some similarities and connections in songs and the story , and we decided to frame it into the fictional story of one person 's life that happened to be based on a lot of stories and relatives of ours , and things that have happened in our families . ''
Casey told Artist Direct why this song for him stands out on the album : `` I really like that because it 's like the culmination of everything .
It says , ` There are ups and downs to life but enjoy it and keep a smile on your face . '
I like that sentiment that the song brings . ''
