This song is a revamp of fellow Texan DJ DMD 's rap hit `` 25 Lighters , '' which is Houston ghetto slang for taking Bic Lighters apart , removing the innards and filling them with crack .
Billy Gibbons explained to MusicRadar.com how the veteran rockers ended up reworking a Hip-Hop tune : `` 25 Lighters was a hip-hop chart topper 15 years ago , and it just so happened to be one of the tracks that our engineer , Mr. Gary Moon , was around for when he served as chief engineer at John Moranz Digital Services , '' he explained .
`` That house specialized in rap and hip-hop clients.While our studio was being worked on , we took refuge in that house , '' Gibbons continued , `` and it was there that ZZ Top got friendly with a bunch of the hip-hop and rap guys .
We were comparing notes and exchanging ideas ; they were showing us beats and I was showing them guitar stuff .
A great time was had . ''
ZZ Top were seen playing the song in an advertising campaign for Jeremiah Weed Root Brew .
As a band who usually record their own original material , ZZ Top were n't used to the machinations of getting permission to rework an original song .
Said Gibbons to MusicRadar : `` What we discovered is that when an artist covers a song , it 's called a ` cover version . '
When an artist begins to modify and change it , after a certain percentage , it 's a ` derivative work , ' and that requires the new version to be reviewed by the originators .
If the originators like it , they can wave holy water over it and you 're good ; if they do n't , you 're stuck.The two original performers , Lil ' Keke and Fat Pat , had passed away , '' he continued , `` and it was the last day to decide if we could do it that we tracked down the executor of the estates .
We played him the track over the phone . '
I do n't know if I can understand this , ' he said .
` I 'm going to put the phone to my little girl .
She 's 14 . '
When she heard it , she said , ` Daddy , they 're playing your song ! '
So the executor got back on and said , ` Looks like you 've got a winner . ' ''
Discussing the long player , Gibbons said , `` We thought long and hard about what this album should be .
We wanted to recall the directness of our early stuff but not turn our backs on contemporary technology .
The result of this melding of the past and the present is , of course , La Futura . ''
