This song finds Hayley Williams singing about `` the three of us '' and `` second chances . ''
Spin magazine asked the vocalist how much of the Paramore album is autobiographical about the departure of founding members Josh and Zac Farro , resulting in them becoming a three-piece .
She replied : `` The entire album is autobiographical , but it 's not all about the lineup changes or losing two band members .
I did n't want to write another record about being in a band .
Not everyone in the world is in a band , so people ca n't all relate to that .
I really just wanted to write about the things that I felt .
And while I think there are shades of those things in the songs - I ca n't really stray away from the things that I 've been through , so obviously it shows up - none of the songs are actually about Zac and Josh leaving the band .
`` Williams added : '' ` Fast in My Car ' is actually more about people who ca n't let go of our past , and the people who ca n't see outside of the big , fat shadow of Paramore 's soap opera .
It 's about just wanting to be left alone enough to grow and move forward and just enjoy where we are . ''
Williams explained this is the story of the friendship between her and her two bandmates .
She said : `` We got to this place where it was like , ` Let 's make it easy on ourselves by just being open and honest and having a good time hanging out as a band . '
When I hear that song , I think about us all piling into a car and going out on the town . ''
Regarding the eponymous album title , Williams told AbsolutePunk : `` It just would n't seem right to try and force a name when these songs hit us like lightning ... We called the record what it is .
It 's really us .
I hope that that says something important to our fans . ''
Hayley Williams explained the background to the song to MTV News : `` We were living in LA when we made the record , '' she said , `` and we were writing it out there too , and one night , I had , like , a Honda Hybrid car , and we pile into it , and there 's only two seats , and so Taylor -LSB- York 's -RSB- laid out in the back of it ; we 're all trying to fit into it to go get sushi .
And it felt like one of those nights , back in 2004 , when were headed to our first shows , and we all just piled in to a station wagon with all our stuff .
It felt like that again , and it felt so good , so I wanted to write a song about us getting away together .
Piling up in a car and getting gone . ''
