On Ben Folds Live , Folds explained : `` People ask me what this song 's about ... I was asked about it a lot , and I did n't really wan na make a big hairy deal out of it , because I just wanted the song to speak for itself .
But the song is about when I was in high school , me and my girlfriend had to get an abortion , and it was a very sad thing .
And , I did n't really want to write this song from any kind of political standpoint , or make a statement .
I just wanted to reflect what it feels like .
So , anyone who 's gone through that before , then you 'll know what the song 's about .
`` Folds has also said that neither teen wanted their parents to know , so Ben ended up taking most of the presents he received that Christmas and selling them at a pawn shop so he and his girlfriend could afford the abortion .
-LRB- thanks , Matt - Conway , AR -RRB- The year before this came out , Folds got some attention when he played the Lollapalooza Tour , often beating the hell out of his piano onstage .
This was not released as a single in the US .
It got it 's chart position due to airplay .
When Ben Folds Five were recording this song at his Chapel Hill , North Carolina home , friends who heard it play were n't enthused .
`` To do a song that was just so simple and commercial-sounding was bumming the peanut gallery out , '' Folds recalled to Spinner .
`` They said , ` What 's that song ?
Is that going to really be on the album ? '
-LSB- I asked , -RSB- ` Why , you do n't like it ? '
` Well , was it the record label 's idea ? '
It 's just called growth and being honest doing what you do .
It 's about something and it just captures the feeling pretty well .
I always felt that was our moment .
I thought ` Brick ' was a very dignified thing for us to have our biggest hit . ''
With a quirky piano-driven sound that does n't fit neatly into a format , Ben Folds Five -LRB- who were actually a trio -RRB- had a hard time getting airplay until this song got noticed by a mainstream audience .
This came at a price , as the band had to play a lot of radio station concerts as a favor for the airplay .
Folds hated these shows , as the fans were usually there just to hear this song , and he had to suffer indignities like a DJ asking onstage which one of their girlfriends had the abortion .
Commercial radio was not a good fit for Ben Folds Five , and none of their other songs got any significant airplay .
However , the internet was good to Ben Folds , and with the advent of iTunes it became clear that his music was enjoyed by legions of fans who were happy to download it .
He has since been very successful in expanding his fanbase online while getting very little attention at record stores and radio stations .
He no longer plays `` Brick '' at concerts .
Folds ' drummer Darren Jessee wrote the lyrics in the chorus of the song , but they really have little to no significance as far as the rest of the song is concerned .
-LRB- thanks , Meg - Virginia Beach , VA -RRB- Some lyric interpretation : `` Now that I have found someoneI 'm feeling more aloneThen I ever have beforeShe 's a brick and I 'm drowning slowlyThis is the main symbol in this song : the brick and drowning .
`` She '' refers to the girlfriend .
Just imagine yourself underwater , running out of air , and trying to resurface ... all the while carrying a brick .
A little hard , eh ?
This is how Ben Folds Five meant it , that the girlfriend is dragging him down .
Another good twist on this is this : one lifeguard certification test is to retrieve a brick from underwater .
Could it be that the guy in the song was n't ready for this kind of responsibility and commitment , just like a beginning lifeguard would n't be ready for that test ?
`` Off the coast and I 'm headed nowhere `` My interpretation of this line was that the abortion is throwing him off track .
` Off the coast ' meaning his life has suddenly taken a little detour , and ` headed nowhere ' is him realizing that becoming a teenage father will get him nowhere in life .
`` They call her name at 7:30 '' ` They ' meaning the people at the abortion clinic .
`` Then I walk down to buy her flowersand sell some gifts that I got `` Buying her flowers is maybe the one indication in the whole song that he still cares for this girl .
He is selling some gifts -LRB- Christmas gifts , remember this is the day after Christmas -RRB- to help pay for the abortion .
`` Ca n't you seeIt 's not me you 're dying for `` This is an interesting two lines , as it is him talking to the unborn child .
`` Now she 's feeling more aloneThen she ever has before `` This is where we finally learn the girl 's state of mind in all this , and this indicates she 's not doing too well .
This girl is very upset about the abortion , and might be becoming depressed .
`` They told me son its time to tell the truthShe broke down and I broke downCause I was tired of lying `` The parents have finally realized something was up with those two , and both of them broke down and told the truth .
`` Driving home to her apartmentFor the moment we 're aloneShe 's aloneI 'm aloneNow I know it .
`` This is perhaps the saddest part of the song .
Even though they both went through this experience , they are n't truly in it together .
` For the moment we 're alone ' makes you think he means that the two of them are away from everyone else , but the next two lines show that what he really meant was that she was alone , and he was alone .
Despite being `` alone '' in the car together , they were separate .
Going through this kind of experience is tough , and it helps if you 're going through it together .
But we finally realize they are on two totally different wavelengths , and while they may still love each other -LRB- I am assuming here that they do -RRB- , they will never be as close as they were before .
-LRB- thanks , Jen - Mt. Laurel , NJ -RRB-
