A-ha wrote and recorded the first version of this song in 1982 with the title `` Lesson One '' - it had different lyrics but contained the basic keyboard riff .
In 1983 , the song got the attention of industry veteran Terry Slater , who becomes their manager and helps them secure a contract with Warner Bros. .
Records later that year.In early 1984 , they re-wrote the song as `` Take On Me '' and recorded it with producer Tony Mansfield .
Released as a single only in Europe , it went to # 3 in their native Norway , but did n't chart anywhere else , flopping particularly hard in the UK .
A video was made for this version that was remarkably undistinguished compared with the one that came after.At Slater 's suggestion , they re-recorded the song with producer Alan Tarney , who beefed it up with more instrumentation and energy .
Around this time , a record company executive named Jeff Ayeroff moved from A&M to Warner Bros. , and championed the song .
In the book I Want My MTV , he said : `` I fell in love with the song .
Then I saw a picture of the band , and it was like , Do people actually look like this ?
Morten Harket was one of the best-looking men in the world .
`` Ayeroff commissioned a new video , hiring Steve Barron , whose work included `` Do n't You Want Me '' by The Human League and `` Billie Jean '' by Michael Jackson , to direct .
The video was released in May , 1985 , and used the new version of the song produced by Alan Tarney .
A promotional single was released at the same time with stills from the video in the sleeve art .
Warner Bros. promoted the song through the video , getting movie theaters to show it before films and eventually getting it on MTV .
When MTV picked it up , radio stations also played the song , and by August it was in the US Top 40 .
The song continued to climb the charts until it hit # 1 on October 19 , where it stayed for one week .
A week later , the song also reached it 's UK chart peak , coming in at # 2 behind `` The Power Of Love '' by Jennifer Rush .
A-ha were a Norwegian trio formed by Morten Harket -LRB- vocals -RRB- , Pal Waaktaar -LRB- guitar -RRB- and Mags Furuholmen -LRB- keyboards -RRB- .
They moved to London in January 1983 and signed to Warners later in the year .
Furuholmen chose their name as it was a simple exclamation known all over the world .
Bunty Bailey , the woman that Morton Harket falls for and saves in the video , became Morton 's girlfriend for a couple of years after they met on the shoot .
After their breakup , she moved on to other music videos , and was one of the girls singing `` back-up '' for Billy Idol in his video for `` Got To Be A Lover . ''
Look for the blonde in the white outfit in the middle .
-LRB- thanks , Kristy - Cobourg , ON , Canada -RRB- The TV show Family Guy did a spoof on the famous music video , with Chris Griffin being pulled into the black and white animation at a supermarket .
-LRB- thanks , Bert - Pueblo , NM -RRB- Reel Big Fish did a cover of this on the BASEketball soundtrack .
It 's a popular song at their concerts .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Holmes - Portland , ME -RRB- Because of the singer 's Norwegan accent , lyrics to the song are often misinterpreted .
In one verse , many people hear , `` Talking away , today is n't my day to find you , '' but the correct lyrics are actually , `` Today 's another day to find me . ''
-LRB- thanks , Freya - Dorset , United Kingdom -RRB- This song became a hit in the US because of its innovative video where a cartoon figure beckons the reader to join him in comic .
It was created by Michael Patterson and his wife Candace Reckinger , who would later work on videos for `` Opposites Attract , '' `` Luka '' and `` Impulsive . ''
Patterson told us : `` We started on a-ha 's ` Take on Me ' - the project began with my animated film Commuter , which won the student academy award in 1981 - it 's done in the same animation style .
I directed the animation and drew everything on that clip - we also did the finish for it here in LA. .
It 's credited for bringing experimental animation into the mainstream .
`` The video was inspired by the transformation scene in the 1980 film Altered States .
Every scene was shot live then projected onto paper and traced.It was directed by Steve Barron , who was responsible for much of MTV 's playlist in the 80s , as he also directed `` Billie Jean , '' `` She Blinded Me With Science , '' `` Karma Chameleon '' and `` Summer Of ' 69 . ''
With this hit , a-ha became the first Norwegian band to have # 1 in USA .
In 1986 , a-ha had a UK # 1 hit with `` The Sun Always Shines on T.V. . ''
The next year , they recorded the soundtrack for the James Bond movie The Living Daylights .
They have a fairly large following in parts of Europe , but had less success in the US .
The Christian Punk band MXPX covered this on their 1995 album On the Cover .
-LRB- thanks , Andy - Toronto , Canada -RRB- The group Strangers With Candy , who were later known as Lifer , won the MTV Ultimate Cover Band Contest with their version of this song .
-LRB- thanks , Jesse - North Providence , RI -RRB- The song reached # 1 in 27 countries including Austria , Belgium , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Sweden , Switzerland and the United States .
It remained on top of the Eurochart Hot 100 for nine weeks .
