This is the first song of four on a double album .
Lead singer Jon Anderson based the lyrics of these songs on part of Paramhansa Yogananda 's Autobiography of a Yogi .
Yogananda was an Indian guru who came to the US and taught Eastern spirituality to his followers , including many self-realization techniques .
The passage in the book describes the four part Shastric scriptures - texts which not only take care of religion and social life , but also of medicine , music , art , architecture .
Jon Anderson is a lover of nature , and he wanted to record the Tales From Topographic Oceans album outdoors in a woodland area north of London .
He envisioned a makeshift studio in a tent , capturing the sounds of the woods on the recording .
His bandmates nixed the idea , so Anderson showed up at the sessions with bales of hay , trees , and cardboard cutouts of animals which he placed around the studio .
This song runs 20:23 , and that was after the edit .
Steve Howe says that in its original form , the song lasted 28 minutes , but they had to make cuts just so it would fit on vinyl .
He says that he and Jon Anderson considered this song the `` accessible '' part of the album .
The song is about the dawn of light , thought , our power , and of love , to the creation and beginning all of the good things which bring happiness to our lives .
That these wonderful forces seem to have been lost by the human race through their own negligence .
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Mountlake Terrace , Washington , for above 2 -RRB- When Yes toured in support of Tales From Topographic Oceans , they played all four sides of the double album , straining the attention of some listeners with a full blast of new music , but delighting others who relished in seeing the album brought to life .
This song in particular was one of Jon Anderson 's favorites to perform .
He told us : `` People would just sit there and listen for 20 minutes each time , and feel the energy at the end of the piece .
We were so convinced about the music , we played it like it was a symphony , and then we finished the piece totally exhausted . ''
As the tour progressed , the set list was altered to include some of the band 's old favorites .
It was a trying time for keyboard player Rick Wakeman , who left Yes after the tour .
