This is the second single by American rapper T.I. , from his seventh studio album , No Mercy .
The reflective song was produced by Alex Da Kid and features pop-singer Christina Aguilera .
British producer Alex Da Kid is best known for co-writing both Eminem 's hit single `` Love The Way You Lie '' and Rihanna 's sequel , `` Love The Way You Lie -LRB- Part II -RRB- . ''
He gushed to MTV News about this mellow track .
`` I love it .
I think it 's amazing .
It 's my sound , just kind of an evolution of that .
I think it 'll cater to a lot of different people . ''
Alex Da Kid said to MTV News of the two stars : `` I feel like they both relate to the song : Both T.I. and Christina Aguilera are on a comeback , and they could really relate to the message on the hook .
And they 're both iconic , to me , so you can never count an icon out . ''
T.I. explained to RapFix Live how the song was inspired by the controversial year he had experienced , in which he 'd exited and re-entered prison : `` I live the life that most would die for , but there 's a lot of things that come with this life .
People do n't take that into consideration .
There are a lot of things in this life that I would trade in a minute just for a slice of normalcy.I just listed a few things that they probably never viewed from that particular perspective , '' he continued .
`` Because I think people need to see things another way ; they need to see it other than just celebrity . ''
The song finds T.I. rapping about the downside of fame despite all he has achieved , whilst in Aguilera 's hook the singer complains that regardless of all she has in life , she still gets lonely : `` Everyone thinks that I have it all / But it 's so empty living behind these castle walls -LRB- These castle walls -RRB- . ''
This might be a reference to Aguilera filing for divorce from her husband music marketing executive Jordan Bratman on October 14 , 2010 .
It could also refer to T.I. 's extended time in jail .
No Mercy was the Atlanta MC 's first release since being freed from prison where he served a sentence on weapons charges .
Two days before No Mercy came out , he begun another stint in the slammer for parole violations .
American singer-songwriter Skylar Grey wrote the hook and bridge .
She is best known for co-writing both Eminem 's hit single `` Love The Way You Lie '' and Rihanna 's sequel , `` Love The Way You Lie -LRB- Part II -RRB- . ''
This song was originally slated for Diddy-Dirty Money 's debut album , before the Bad Boy boss thought it would be better for T.I. , because of his troubles .
Tip explained in an interview from jail on MTV 's RapFix Live : `` A funny thing about this record : It belonged to my big homey Puff first .
Puff , he acknowledged it , ` Yeah , this is my record , but you know what , I think this is a better fit for you .
I think you should rock out on this one .
I think this speaks volumes to where you are , what you going through , what you living and how you feel . ' ''
