This is the first single from Keane 's 2010 EP , Night Train .
The song is a collaboration with Somali-Canadian rapper , K'naan .
Night Train was recorded in various studios throughout the globe on Keane 's world tour for 2008 's Perfect Symmetry .
The title alludes to the band 's traveling on trains between gigs , their favorite method of travel .
`` The idea was to chuck out a single , or at most an EP in October , '' Keane vocalist Tom Chaplin told Billboard magazine .
`` But it turned into something more .
I think we see it as a body of work that we made during touring .
Just a document of different places and moods . ''
Chaplin told Spinner UK that this song took longer than expected to be recorded .
`` One of the songs , Stop For A Minute was on a loop for ages and ages while K'Naan worked out the lyrics in his head , '' he said , laughing .
`` It was on for hours , driving us mad , but then he just walked up to the microphone and laid down his track . ''
Drummer Richard Hughes added dryly : `` I must admit I 'd retreated to the living room by that point .
His and Tom 's vocals really compliment each other , and it really works them singing alternate verse and bridge .
K'Naan brought some lyrics to us too , the second verse is his that he wrote in the studio .
That 's what a proper collaboration is about . ''
Keyboardist Tim Rice-Oxley told AntiMusic about the song : `` It 's quite dark .
I think the message of the song is about not trying to get too bogged down in over-thinking stuff all the time .
If you sit down for too long , you can easily make yourself depressed !
I guess it 's about trying to rise above that . ''
The song is one of two tracks on Night Train on which K'naan makes a contribution .
Chaplin told The London Times : `` We had two songs we could n't finish .
It turned out K'naan had been a fan for years .
He came to the studio , listened to the gaps in both songs and , a few hours later , presented us with fully formed ideas .
We did n't give ourselves time to navel-gaze . ''
The song contains the couplet : `` Sometimes I feel like a little lost child / Sometimes I feel like the chosen one '' .
Rice-Oxley told The Independent May 7 , 2010 both lines are from the heart .
`` I 'm reading -LSB- British comic actor who had a life-long struggle with depression -RSB- Kenneth Williams 's diaries at the moment , '' he explained .
`` I 'm really interested in someone like that , with all the mess and depression .
I really associate with people who are honest about their fear of failure .
If I feel that I 've written a really great song , that 's pretty much what I live for .
My identity 's dependent on it .
But there are days I 'll spiral into thinking : ' I ca n't write any more .
I literally ca n't finish even a crap song . '
I live in fear of the day when everyone turns round and says : ` Actually , you 're right ! '
That really haunts me .
That whatever I had is gone .
I spend the whole time dreading that feeling that I 'm not good enough .
And it 's that same fear that leads to thinking : ` If in doubt , stick to the well-trodden path and let 's do another `` Is It Any Wonder '' . '
But then Tom gives me a kick up the arse . ''
