This is the opening track from Country music singer Luke Bryan 's second album , Doin ' My Thing .
This song puts a positive spin on rain .
Bryan told AOL 's The Boot : `` It was fun to take a subject that 's typically got a negative connotation and make it a positive thing .
Rain is very important , and kind of kicks off the whole process of life . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Shaun Silva -LRB- Kenny Chesney and Rascal Flatts -RRB- and was shot in October 2009 at Bryan 's inaugural Farm Tour show in Statesboro , Georgia .
This was the first Country # 1 for Luke Bryan .
The Leesburg , Georgia native splashed out the previous holder of the top spot , Brad Paisley 's `` Water , '' on the chart dated July 24 , 2010 .
Bryan penned this with Country music songwriter Dallas Davidson , whose other writing credits include Trace Adkins ' `` Honky Tonk Badonkadonk , '' Jack Ingram 's `` Barefoot and Crazy '' and the Brad Paisley-Keith Urban duet , `` Start a Band . ''
As Bryan is the son of a farmer who was dependent on rain he decided that he wanted to write a positive song about precipitation .
Luke explained to The Boot : `` We worked in agriculture , so we were always looking up at the sky , checking if it was raining or if rain was in the forecast .
That always kind of set the tone for the mood in my household , whether we had rain coming in or not .
Or if it had rained , we knew the crops would be good and it was going to be a good week around the Bryan household . ''
Bryan told The Boot that the lyrics came easily enough during the writing session since it was a familiar phrase .
`` The song came about strictly from an old saying that me and my co-writer , in college , we 'd have something planned and you get bummed out by the rain , '' recalled the Georgia native .
`` And we thought , ` Well , rain makes corn , corn makes whiskey , ' and we had never even said the frisky line .
We actually made that up during the writing session . ''
Shortly after the single hit the charts , Middle Tennessee was hit by some tragic flooding .
Bryan was concerned how , considering the circumstances , this rain-extolling song would fare .
He told The Boot : `` When we put it out , obviously , we thought about it .
It was like , ` Lord , we really do n't need any big flooding going on . '
But certainly , when the Nashville flooding hit , it really kind of made us go , ` Ah , this thing may have a little tough time .
For obvious reasons , some stations around Nashville were not playing it as much as they were before the flood .
I actually talked to some -LSB- radio -RSB- programmers ... and said , ` Guys , I get it .
Just wait it out a little bit and let everybody get to feeling a little better and their spirits back up . '
To have some other flooding going on -LSB- in Arkansas -RSB- , I guess it taught me to never do another song again that could possibly have natural disasters to it !
So , I wo n't have any songs with hurricanes in it , or anything like that .
But it was just an amazing ride , and even more testament to the song being really good that it was able to overcome things like that . ''
