This song samples Lady Gaga 's international smash hit `` Poker Face . ''
Kid Cudi 's mentor Kanye West , who co-wrote this track , told MTV News that he was attracted to Lady Gaga 's record when he discovered it 's true bi-sexual meaning .
However , it was when he saw her perform a different version of `` Poker Face '' on the Internet that he was inspired to sample the song .
He explained : `` When I saw that YouTube , that 's what made me fall in love with the song - when I saw her play it the acoustic version .
I could hear all the melody lines .
On the ` Poker Face ' single , she sings it straightforward , almost , like , ripping it or chanting it .
But this -LSB- acoustic version -RSB- , you hear the Broadway melodies run up and down .
I was inspired by that .
I wanted to sample it .
I thought it was really dope - just on some hip-hop , ` Say when I p-p-poke her face . '
All the backstory to the song is really controversial .
When I found out that her actual song is about her making love to her boyfriend but really thinking about her girlfriend , I was like , ` Oh , that 's crazy . '
For us to even flip it to another level and challenge people 's opinions , that 's it . ''
Kid Cudi , Kanye West and Common all feature in the music video .
The way the director , Nez Khammal , -LRB- Lily Allen 's `` The Fear '' -RRB- got round the difficulty of finding a mutually convenient slot in all three of the busy artists ' diaries was to film them separately .
He explained to MTV News : `` We shot Kanye in L.A. and we shot Common and Kid Cudi in New York .
I tried to find a place in New York that just felt - not that it had to be specifically L.A. , but something that just jelled everything .
We did a half a day with Kanye , two-thirds of a day with Kid Cudi , and then a third of a day with Common .
It was quite compact , like a get-up-and-go sort of thing .
`` Cudi explained the concept of the clip : `` We wanted to go for a real abstract and iconic-looking video , something real artsy .
It 's really dope .
It 's like split screen , and how he shot it is with multiple , different shots .
It 's almost like there 's still shots and there 's movement going on in them .
It 's really trippy . ''
This was formerly called `` I Poke Her Face '' but West changed the title to make it more radio-friendly .
