Portland , Oregon-based indie outfit A Weather are fronted by Aaron Gerber and Sarah Winchester .
Other band members include Zach Boyle , Aaron Krenkel and Louis Thomas .
This is a track from their second album , Everyday Balloons .
Gerber explained the song 's lyrics in the same interview : `` Lyrically the song went through a few versions and I continued revising until right before recording .
I discarded most of what I 'd written back in 2007 except for the first verse I mentioned above , which had become - for better or worse - an intrinsic part of the song 's identity .
The lyrics are mostly concerned with the question of when one 's life becomes worth something , becomes a completed idea , and if our accomplishments are what define a life and prepare us for death .
Also , I was thinking a bit about how as a child you assume that someday you 'll know how everything works and how the process of living your life proves the impossibility of this .
It 's about coming to terms with the anxiety of not knowing . ''
Gerber told the story of the song to AntiMusic : `` This song , like a few others on Everyday Balloons , has its genesis in 2007 before we 'd even started recording our first record , Cove .
I remember coming home from the music store where I used to teach lessons , driving North on I-5 in the beat up Honda CRX I was using at the time .
This was when the initial verse melody came into my head .
It 's rare for me to create lyrics and melody simultaneously , but in this case the first two lines were linked from the beginning : ` No matter when I wake up the day always is the same length ... ' By the time I was almost home I 'd also formed the melody for the pre-chorus -LRB- the section when the drums and rest of the band kick in -RRB- .
I recorded those two scraps on Garageband when I got back to my house .
I also wrote the song ` Small Potatoes ' -LRB- from Cove -RRB- that same night , and for a little while I was actually trying to combine the two since they both had a similar tempo and an upbeat feel , but I came to realize the two songs were better left independent of each other .
Maybe a month later , our guitar player Aaron K. and I spent an afternoon trying to flesh out ` Third of Life ' but it did n't feel completed so I shelved it .
By that time I 'd had the title , which I culled from Counting Sheep , a great non-fiction book about sleep by Paul Martin .
` Third of Life ' refers to the average amount of time a person spends asleep.I tend to hold unfinished songs in my head for a long time , always aware that they are there and thinking about how to bring them to completion .
In late 2008 I began work on the song again , finally coming up with the chorus melody -LRB- ` If I 'm going to make it across I only want to swim once ... ' -RRB- .
Originally I first wrote the harmony that Sarah sings on this section and considered that to be the main theme .
The more swooping melody that I sing was actually an afterthought , a counterpoint to the first melody .
As might be apparent from listening , the long outro section came from a separate song idea I 'd had for a while but had n't found a home for .
It seemed to make a good dynamic ending for the first half of the song so we stuck it on there . ''
