The Neighbourhood is a California-based Alternative Rock band that formed in August 2011 .
The band comprises vocalist Jesse Rutherford , guitarists Jeremy Freedman and Zach Abels , bassist Mikey Margott , and drummer Bryan Sammis .
In May 2012 , the band unveiled their first self-released free EP , I 'm Sorry , which featured this song .
A year later , after signing to Columbia Records , The Neighbourhood released their first full length album , I Love You .
Rutherford told Swide.com that this track posed the biggest problem in expressing the emotions that that he wanted to convey .
He explained : `` That song has done so much for us and it 's a super solid song but it was the first one we wrote .
We have grown a lot and have gotten our sound more locked in since that song .
It still feels right alongside all the other songs but it definitely is the hardest one to put other tracks around . ''
The twelve tracks on I Love You push the listener through a series of angst-ridden themes based on both the vibe and lyrical content of the songs .
Bryan Sammis explained to Coup De Main magazine : `` I think that at least in terms of the musical aspect of it , all of us try and get our own emotions out through our instruments , which is not always the easiest thing to do .
I think for Jesse -LSB- Rutherford -RSB- lyrically , what I really like about him and about us as a band is that a lot of his lyrics are n't necessarily pre-ordained , because he 's not trying to force it .
A lot of his lyrics are off the top of his head when he first hears the song , because that makes it more natural , it 's legitimately what he is thinking about and how he is feeling when he hears that song . ''
The song started in a similar way to how many others do .
`` One day Jesse was at my house and I was playing guitar , '' Abels recalled to Radio.com .
`` And he said , ` Hey that 's pretty cool , let me record that . '
And it just so happened to be ` Sweater Weather . '
When we got done writing the song , when it was all said and done we were like ` Okay this is pretty good we should keep writing songs . ''
`` I think ` Sweater Weather ' might 've been the best song we 'd ever written , '' Rutherford added , `` but I did n't think it was going to be the best song we 'd ever write .
It was kind of like getting a Platinum record , like a little tap on the butt .
` Good job , keep going . ' ''
