Blues Traveler frontman John Popper was caught in the `` friend zone '' with the band 's original bass player , Felicia Lewis , when he wrote this song .
The group 's guitarist Chan Kinchla told us the story in our 2012 interview : `` The song 's an unrequited love song about John and our original bass player , Felicia , who he kind of had a crush on .
She was actually classically trained as a violinist , and she was just playing bass for fun because she was friends with everyone .
`` Kinchla says that Felicia was a great student and eventually became doctor - her calling was medicine , not music .
When Bobby Sheehan was ready to take over on bass , Felicia stepped aside .
Says Chan , `` It 's a very amicable situation .
John always had kind of a crush on her , but they were friends , as well .
So that song 's from that whole affair .
They 're still very close .
It 's just an unrequited love song . ''
Pure Pop songs were hard to find in 1994 , since so much popular music contained elements of Grunge or Hip-Hop .
Top 40 radio stations trying to stay in the middle embraced this song along with offerings from other newly discovered by refined acts like Dave Matthews Band , Hootie & the Blowfish , and Sheryl Crow .
Once the song gained some traction , it hung around for a while - it stayed on the US Hot-100 chart for 49 consecutive weeks , which was a record at the time .
This won the 1995 Grammy for Best Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal .
The first line in this song is a play on part of the poem The Raven by Edgar Allan Poe , who wrote : `` Once upon a midnight dreary , I woke with something in my head .
`` In this song , the line is `` Once upon a midnight dearie ... '' so he is addressing the girl .
John Popper often puts allusions to famous works in his lyrics .
Chuck Leavell played keyboards on this track .
He is best known for his work with The Rolling Stones and The Allman Brothers .
The production/DJ duo Gunslinger did an Electronic remix of this song that was release on the Blues Traveler : 25 collection .
This was the first hit for Blues Traveler , and it shot them to stardom after 7 years of touring and 3 previous albums .
All that touring primed the band for their success , and they did very well on the many TV appearances they earned as a result of this song .
In particular , David Letterman became a huge fan and had the band on several times , often bantering with John Popper during the show .
In 1995 , Blues Traveler performed this on the season premiere of Saturday Night Live .
They were asked to go on when Prince canceled .
Blues Traveler followed up this song with `` Hook , '' which was another hit .
That was their last visit to the Hot-100 , but their fleeting popularity gave them a substantially larger fan base .
Their next album , Straight On till Morning contained a song called `` Most Precarious , '' which sounded precariously similar to `` Run-Around . ''
There were some rumors that this song is about Spin Doctors lead singer Chris Barron .
This is n't true , although Barron did play some gigs with Blues Traveler when they were starting out .
If you go to a Blues Traveler concert , there 's a good chance you will hear this song .
Chan Kinchla told us in 2012 : `` When people come to the show they 're expecting to hear some of the hits , and we do n't want to be the band that 's too cool to play them .
I really ca n't not like ` Run-Around ' or ` Hook , ' because they helped pay for my house .
The way we look at it with a song , if you 're bored and played out in the song , it 's really your own fault .
Especially the way we play - you take in the environment and the feel and the vibe , and there are some things you can do to keep it fresh .
So that 's really up to you to keep yourself into it . ''
