Unusually for Neko Case , Middle Cyclone contains a number of love songs .
On this number , the part-time New Pornographer compares love to a destructive tornado .
She told Paste Magazine that `` since Fox Confessor , I 'd said a lot that I do n't write love songs -- I just do n't like to do it .
But I ended up writing lots of love songs .
If you say you do n't want to do something , you 're going to contradict yourself later .
It always happens .
They 're still not traditional love songs , but they 're love songs nonetheless . ''
Middle Cyclone is devoted to the theme of nature and various types of hurricanes .
Case explained to the A.V.Club why : '' I think I just have an empathy for nature in general , which I think is why I 've kind of branched out into not just animals , but also weather .
-LSB- Laughs . -RSB-
Getting into weather these days , you know , tornadoes .
I think that the more human you realize you are , the more of an animal you realize you are -- meaning that it 's okay to not have all the answers .
It 's a very Faustian kind of thing -- like when Faust asks the minion of the devil to tell him the meaning of life and love , and the devil and the minion go , `` Well , Faust , I could tell you that , but your human brain is so small that you would n't get it , so I 'm not going to waste my time . ''
That seems like a really terrible thing , but it 's actually a huge relief .
It makes you more forgiving of mankind , and I think it really opens the floodgates of compassion . ''
The premise of this song was inspired by a dream .
Case told Paste Magazine : `` I had a dream one night about a tornado .
It was a really interesting dream , and ever since then I 've been thinking about them .
I realized that a lot of the songs have tornadoes in them without even realizing that I was doing that . ''
She added : `` It 's a literal story about a tornado in love with a person .
That 's what the dream was about .
It was n't me that the tornado was in love with ; it was kind of a kid .
But yeah , it was a strange story .
But I was pretty moved by it . ''
Case recorded this song , along with `` Polar Nettles , '' and Harry Nilsson 's `` Do n't Forget Me '' on her 100-acre farm in rural Vermont .
She filled the farm 's 230-year-old barn with eight pianos she 'd salvaged and recorded a piano orchestra with her friends .
Case explained to the A.V.Club why she went for the epic production : `` Well that one was one of the instances where more was better .
Sometimes it 's good to overdo it , and sometimes it 's good to understate it .
I guess just figuring out the difference sometimes is as different as night and day .
You 'll be thinking about it for four months , like ` Why is this not working ? '
and then you suddenly one day are eating a scone , and you go , ` Oh , I know what to do . '
And it 's that easy . ''
