1 Giant Leap are British musicians Jamie Catto and Duncan Bridgeman .
A variety of guest vocalists appear on the album , and on this track the vocals are by Speech -LRB- from Arrested Development -RRB- and Neneh Cherry .
Says Speech : '' ` Braided Hair ' was , musically , a 1 Giant Leap creation .
And they reached out to me .
The concept of that group is pretty cool .
Those guys basically travel around the world , and they reach out to artists , philosophers , spiritualists , you name it - different tribal leaders - and they just talk to them about certain issues .
Well , they had reached out to me and asked if I could be involved in a project .
And when I saw the scope of the project and the boldness of how big this project was , like what they were trying to accomplish , I did really think it 's one giant leap .
I thought it was incredible , and I was honored to do it .
It was n't for pay .
I mean , I 've gotten paid from it now , but when we first started it had nothing to do with money , it was just a passion , something for the passion of music and the opportunity to do something creative .
So they came to Atlanta and they had the track of `` Braided Hair . ''
They asked me to pick from a few different tracks what I thought I 'd be inspired to write to , and that was the one I liked .
That song was very easy to write .
They literally came over to my house that same night , I wrote the entire song , they filmed the video for the song that same night .
And then they recorded all the guests that were on the song , like Neneh Cherry .
Ulali is a group from India who sang on the song .
And all of them I 'd never met at the time .
I 've met Neneh Cherry , but at the time they were n't there , and sort of like you do cartoon animated movies , we just all did our parts in our separate places.The lyrics ` We Might survive as brothers , ' that was written by Jamie , who was one of the members of One Giant Leap .
And I just sang that part .
The rest of it - or at least all my parts that I sang - was just what I came up with at the time .
It was really one of those clear cut inspiration moments , because they loved everything that I wrote .
They thought , as England people say , I was brilliant .
They 're from the UK , and it just worked out right .
I have now since done their second album , and it was n't easy .
They came back to me and was like , ` Hey , we need you to write a great hit . '
I never do good when people tell me that , because I never really write songs to think of them as hits , although I 've written some hits .
It was like forcing teeth out of my mouth to try to get a great song .
I think we did do a great job , though , we did some good stuff .
But that ` Braided Hair ' song was like butter , smooth , nice and easy . ''
-LRB- Check out our full interview with Speech . -RRB-
