VH1 asked Janet Jackson if this was the only baby-making song on the album .
She replied : '' I 'm only putting one on this time .
I did do another , but I 'm not putting it on .
Maybe I 'll do it as a bonus record or something .
There is another song that comes after -LSB- the title track -RSB- .
It 's has a sensual feel for sure , lyrically speaking , and it paints the whole picture of what I do on stage and taking it to the bedroom with him .
But it 's faster than ` Discipline ' and it 's called ` Curtains . ' ''
Jackson told Billboard magazine that the aim of the album was to innovate without totally reinventing the wheel : `` There 's so much that I 've done , from ` Black Cat ' to ' I Get Lonely ' to ` That 's the Way Love Goes ' to ` Together Again . '
I have never stuck to one style of music ever .
There are some things that maybe I 'll try for right now and some things I 'll wait later on to try .
It 's -LSB- about -RSB- sticking to who I am .
Even lyrically , something that I 've experienced or someone that I know has experienced , it has to relate to my life and myself . ''
Janet Jackson on her record label 's website : `` Discipline has been much on my mind .
It 's the idea that unifies the songs on this record .
As a concept , and even a lifestyle , discipline goes extremely deep .
It can be applied to so much about ourselves .
In my case , I see it as one of defining aspects of my character .
Discipline was there for me from the start .
But it was not until this record that I began to understand its full meaning .
In putting Discipline out front - as both the title of the album and title of a song about sexual surrender - I wanted to announce that I was venturing into new creative waters .
That meant working with producers like Jermaine Dupri , Rodney Jerkins , and Ne-Yo , whose songs spoke to the immediacy of my emotions .
Like all my records , this one , whether intentional or not , has autobiographical roots .
It 's difficult for me to work any other way .
I do n't feel it , if I do n't believe it , I ca n't sing it.So Discipline , as a storyline , begins in my childhood which someone could see as a classic study in discipline .
Discipline was part of a family culture that I absorbed .
I was born with it .
I also believe that discipline has given me the confidence to jump out of the nest .
When L.A. Reid , Chairman of Island Def Jam , and I discussed co-executive producing this record , we both agreed that the feeling had to be adventuresome and fresh .
I was interested in exploring musical scenarios-some exotic , many erotic , but all deeply emotional .
I wanted to push the envelope .
And I 'm glad that ` Discipline , ' both as a song and an album , does just that .
`` Jackson then discussed how she has matured since her breakthrough album Control in 1986 : `` Funny , but my first big album also had a one-word title : Control .
I was naïve in thinking that I could control every aspect of my life .
The only one who really has control is God .
But it took discipline-the discipline of thought , the discipline of action , the discipline of creating music-to make me see that .
Finally , discipline has to do with faith .
I have faith that a gentle but steady discipline will let me continue to grow as an artist and a woman . ''
