Mike Rosenberg is a British singer-songwriter and indie pop/folk/rock singer , who records under the moniker of Passenger .
He was the founder , main vocalist and songwriter of the four-piece folk rock band of the same name that were based in Brighton , England and released just one album .
They opened up for several high-profile indie acts throughout the UK , including Kate Nash and the Hold Steady , but in 2009 the members of the band chose to go their own separate ways .
Rosenberg opted to keep the name Passenger for his solo work and in 2012 , he released his third solo album , All The Little Lights , which was recorded at Sydney 's Linear Recording and featured a more fully fleshed-out sound .
Mike Rosenberg explained the song 's meaning to Female First : `` In my mind the song has two meanings ; '' he said , `` the first is quite literal as I wrote it after a break up and it is about letting her go .
But then there is a bigger idea going on and is more about not really understanding and knowing what you have until it is gone and I think everyone can definitely relate to . ''
Rosenberg was backstage after finishing a set at a university bar in Australia when he came up with this song .
He was the support act for another band , and his performance was met with utter indifference that night .
In a melancholy mood , he came up with this song about his ex-girlfriend .
He says the song just came `` pouring out '' of him .
This song was used in a popular Budweiser commercial titled `` Puppy Love , '' which aired during the 2014 Super Bowl between the Seattle Seahawks and Denver Broncos .
In the spot , a determined puppy finds a way to reunite with his Clydesdale friend .
This was the second single to be released from All The Little Lights .
The song marked Passenger 's first international success , topping the charts in a number of countries , including Australia , Austria , Belgium , Denmark , Finland , Germany , Ireland , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , New Zealand , Sweden and Switzerland .
Rosenberg told VH1 : `` It did n't take long to write , at all .
Under an hour , I think .
When I wrote it , I definitely felt like it had something ... I never had a song on the radio , I did n't believe I could have a song on the radio , because generally , folk music does n't get on commercial radio , it just does n't .
I kinda thought that that kind of success was for other people , people who really tried to get that kind of success , because I never have . ''
The woman who inspired this song by rending Rosenberg 's heart knows it is about her .
`` We 're good friends now , '' the singer told Rolling Stone in 2014 .
`` I think she 's still kind of got mixed feelings about it .
She 's happy for me , but it is pretty weird . ''
