Imagine Dragons is a four-piece rock band based in Las Vegas , Nevada comprising vocalist Dan Reynolds , guitarist D Wayne Sermon , bassist Ben McKee and drummer Daniel `` Z '' Platzma , After recording three buzzed about EPs , Imagine Dragons signed to major label Interscope Records in November 2011 .
They linked up with producer Alex Da Kid -LRB- Eminem , Rihanna -RRB- to record Continued Silence , their first major label release .
This is the lead single from the EP .
Reynolds says the song is `` about self-empowerment and staying true to your roots . ''
The song featured in the trailer for the American film adaptation of The Perks Of Being a Wallflower .
Reynolds wrote the inspirational anthem in his kitchen as he dealt with a bout of depression .
`` I was dropping out of college , making some changes , and it was n't the peak of my life , '' he told Billboard magazine .
`` I was just trying to write a song for myself .
I 've struggled with depression and anxiety , and the song spurred from that .
Whoever connects to it , I 'm happy . ''
Reynolds told The Huffington Post about the writing process for the song : `` There 's so many times you wake up at 3 a.m. , grab a recorder on the iPhone and say something - a lyrical idea or melody - and then you lay it out in logic later on and sometimes it makes no sense , '' he said .
`` We sat with ` It 's Time ' for a year or year-and-a-half .
Sometimes you just have to let a song sit for awhile .
There 's just something really special about it .
I wrote it during a very hard time in my life .
I had dropped out of college , and I was just sitting down at my computer , and I came up with this rhythm .
And the words just wrote themselves .
I knew I had something special coming.When a song is most honest and most raw that 's when you know you 're doing something right .
A lot of my favorite artists are able to be in touch with their problems and put it through melodies .
It happens all the time with bands . ''
The Anthony Leonardi III directed music video features the band as mystic travelers carrying a very special parcel .
The clip also works as a metaphor for Imagine Dragons ' rise .
`` We had this idea in our heads for a long time , but , you know , we could never make it , '' frontman Dan Reynolds told MTV News .
`` Until we found a director who could bring it to life .
We went out to Barstow -LSB- California -RSB- - which is between Las Vegas and L.A. , and we 've made that drive many times , because we 're from Vegas - and we shot it on a dry lake bed .
It was our first time doing a music video , so it was a really awesome experience . ''
