Jesus Of Suburbia is the main character of American Idiot .
He 's a kid who hates his family , friends , and home .
Billie Joe Armstrong stated on VH1 Storytellers that the line , `` While the mums and Brads are away '' means that in this day and age children speak to their step parents on a first name basis .
-LRB- thanks , Stacy - Sunbury , Australia -RRB- This song is broken down into 5 sections : Part I. Jesus Of SuburbiaThis is an introduction of the character and tells about his home life.Part II .
City Of The DamnedThis takes place in a 7/11 parking lot where he got into a fight and first realized he hated his friends and home : `` The 7/11 where I was taught , the motto was a lie , it says home is where the heart is , but everyone 's heart does n't beat the same . ''
The lyric , `` At the end of another lost highway '' refers to the group of kids who hang out under the highway where once again he does n't fit in.Part III .
I Do n't CareThis is where he becomes an outcast hating everyone and everything , and also in the story this is where St. Jimmy -LRB- a character Jesus created to heal the pain of a lost girlfriend -RRB- ties in , saying he hates everything now .
This is where he considers leaving home.Part IV .
Dearly BelovedNot much is known on this part , it 's believed to be the peaceful , yet hard twilight between anger and happiness where you are content.Part V. Tales From Another Broken HomeThis is where Jesus just gives up and leaves .
He does n't know where he 's going but he 's just going far away : `` Running away from pain when you 've been victimized . ''
This is where he 's leaving everyone that hated and hurt him , sort of starting over and beginning a new life .
-LRB- thanks , Zach - Oklahoma City , OK , for above 2 -RRB- In the video , the Jesus of Suburbia character has tattoos similar to Billie Joe Armstrong : a skull and crossbones on his upper arm , and `` EPBM '' on his left wrist .
The actor who played Jesus of Suburbia is Lou Taylor Pucci , who appeared in the movies Fifty Pills and Thumbsucker .
-LRB- thanks , September Heaven - lawton , MI -RRB-
