This is an antiestablishment song of defiance and blue-collar pride , both anti-Washington and against the Vietnam War .
John Fogerty and Doug Clifford were both drafted in 1966 and discharged from the army in 1967 .
`` The song speaks more to the unfairness of class than war itself , '' Fogerty said .
`` It 's the old saying about rich men making war and poor men having to fight them . ''
Richard Nixon was president of the US when group leader John Fogerty wrote this song .
Fogerty was not a fan of Nixon and felt that people close to the president were receiving preferential treatment .
Creedence performed this on The Ed Sullivan Show , probably because the show 's producers did n't realize it was a protest song .
The show tried hard not to offend anyone , and usually had bands perform their least controversial songs or alter the lyrics for the show -LRB- see `` Let 's Spend The Night Together '' and `` Light My Fire '' -RRB- .
This is one of those songs that came together very quickly .
Fogerty recalled to American Songwriter magazine in January 2013 : `` When I felt it was about ready to hatch , I went into my bedroom and just sat down to write .
The whole thing happened in about 20 minutes .
That just poured out . ''
Wrangler jeans used this in commercials in 2001 .
They used only the first 2 lines : `` Some folks are born , made to wave the flag , Ooh , that red , white and blue , '' implying the patriotic misinterpretation .
The next lines are : `` And when the band plays `` Hail to the Chief '' Ooh , they 're pointin ' the cannon at you , '' but those lyrics would not sell jeans very well .
This has been covered by U2 , Bruce Springsteen , Kid Rock , Dropkick Murphys , Sleater-Kinney , Corrosion Of Conformity , Minutemen , Uncle Tupelo , Bob Seger , Circle Jerks , Joe Lynn Turner , Bunny Foot Charm , Death Cab For Cutie , Undead , Raccoon , and 38 Special .
Wyclef Jean 's slow , passionate cover of this was the theme song for the 2004 political thriller The Manchurian Candidate .
Another popular political film from the summer of '04 was the controversial documentary Fahrenheit 9/11 , of which John Fogerty remarked : `` With the Michael Moore movie , certain conservative talk show hosts call him un-American .
Him and anybody else who says anything about the war ... To question your country 's policy , especially in a war that kills people , is definitely not un-American .
It 's probably the most patriotic thing you can do . ''
-LRB- thanks , Brett - Edmonton , Canada -RRB- Former United States president George W. Bush is often considered a `` Fortunate Son , '' as he reaped the benefits that came with growing up in a powerful political family , which may have helped him avoid combat .
This is covered in a book called Fortunate Son .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France , for above 2 -RRB- This is one of three political songs on the Willy And The Poorboys album .
The others were `` It Came From the Sky '' and `` Do n't Look Now -LRB- It Ai n't You or Me -RRB- . ''
This spoke out against the war in Vietnam , but was supportive of the soldiers fighting there .
Like many CCR fans , most of the soldiers came from the working class , and were there because they did n't have connections who could get them out .
The song is sung from the perspective of one of these men , who ends up fighting because he is not a `` Senator 's son . ''
Fogerty recorded a bunch of vocal takes for `` Down On The Corner '' before singing this .
As a result , his voice was strained , which he thinks is apparent on the song .
Like Bruce Springsteen 's `` Born In The U.S.A. , '' this is often misinterpreted as a patriotic anthem , when it is the opposite .
Fogerty does not own the publishing rights to this song .
He lost them , along with all the other songs he wrote for CCR , in his contract with Fantasy Records , which the band signed when they were struggling .
Fantasy 's boss at the time , Saul Zaentz , controls the rights and can use the songs any way he wants , as long as it is n't performed by any member of CCR .
Fogerty hates that his song is constantly misused , but has no choice .
He expressed this frustration on his solo track `` Vanz Kant Danz . ''
When interviewed by Rolling Stone magazine , John Fogerty was once asked : `` What inspired ` Fortunate Son ' ? ''
His response : `` Julie Nixon was hanging around with David Eisenhower , and you just had the feeling that none of these people were going to be involved with the war .
In 1969 , the majority of the country thought morale was great among the troops , and like eighty percent of them were in favor of the war .
But to some of us who were watching closely , we just knew we were headed for trouble . ''
-LRB- thanks , Brett - Edmonton , Canada , for above 2 -RRB- This is one of the first protest songs that makes the point that it 's the poor who are most likely to fight the wars .
During the Iraq war , System Of A Down covered this topic with their song `` B.Y.O.B. . ''
