The Connection was written during a tumultuous time in lead vocalist Jacoby Shaddix 's life and this passionate electronic ballad finds him crushed and resolved to make changes .
`` I was going through a separation with my wife during the process of making the record , '' he explained to Loudwire , `` fast forward to the present and we 're working it out now , but in the process of making this record we were separated .
I was at the end of my rope ; I was in a lot of pain .
This music is where I found my sanctuary , where I could express myself and just take myself out it for a second and not feel the pain and just be creative .
During the process of making this song , ` Before I Die ' I felt like everything was taken from me and I was just left out there raw and broken , it made everything clear to me , what really mattered to me . ''
`` It was n't the material things that I have in my life , '' Shaddix continued , `` which I 'm not a materialistic person when it comes down to it , but you know at the end of the day it 's the people that I love in my life that are the most important to me and sometimes when you treat the people that you love the most the worst , that 's the wrong path .
I had to take a long hard look at myself and realize how I was living my life and make those changes .
Just being out there on my own and having those realizations , that 's where the song came from . ''
Shaddix told Artist Direct that the song `` came from the depths of despair . ''
He explained : `` I was in a place where I was the most desperate I 've ever been in my life .
I was not thinking straight .
I was a suicidal for a minute .
I was out of my head , and I did n't want to live anymore .
These things in my life that I 'm really grateful for kept flashing through my head .
I thought , ` These are the things I want to live for before I die-my family , my kids , my wife , my spiritual life , the Papa Roach fans , and this music that 's bigger than me . '
`` All of those things are what saved me , '' he added .
`` When I heard the music as Tobin -LRB- Esperance -RRB- was writing it , I was like , ` Oh my God , you 're baking my noodle right now !
I love this ! ' ''
