This is a collaboration with Boyz II Men , who were the hottest vocal group at the time , charting # 1 hits with `` I 'll Make Love To You '' and `` On Bended Knee '' in 1994 .
Talking about the song in Entertainment Weekly , LL Cool J said : `` I wrote this hook and I just thought it felt like Boyz II Men .
They were on fire at the time , but more importantly it just felt like they were made to do it .
We drove out to Philly and I played the record for the guys .
They got in the truck with me and some friends , and they loved it .
We went right to the studio that night I and did the entire song in one take .
Everything , It was just magical . ''
`` Hey Lover '' may have been the pinnacle of romance in the mid - '90s , but it is difficult to see how this wish fulfillment fantasy about a poor woman who accidentally makes eye-contact with the rapper could be construed as anything but creepy .
Over the course of the song , he stalks the woman repeatedly over a long period of time , and has sexual fantasies about her .
It 's hard to interpret his dream of `` tonguing you down with vanilla ice cream , '' while he watches her at the bus stop from his car , as anything other than a little bit off .
Interestingly enough , the same year this single was released , LL Cool J married Simone L. Johnson , and we could speculate as to whether or not she is the woman in his song .
We certainly hope so , as it would make a comforting end to the story -LRB- better than , say , checking missing persons databases -RRB- .
The music video , directed by Hype Williams , portrays this woman -LRB- actress Gilian Illana Waters -RRB- as a helpless sex-object , whilst the lyrics seem to see her as economically dependent on hand-outs from her man , whom LL Cool J feels is not looking after her properly because her man allows her to take the bus instead of driving her around in his Porsche -LRB- `` Your man must think it 's safe for you to travel that way . ''
As LL Cool J proves by stalking her , clearly it 's not safe at all ! -RRB-
Although he certainly is a victim of the sort of stereotyping now associated with male chauvinism , he seems so blissfully unaware of it that it actually comes across as innocent .
Accusing a rapper of sexism may be a moot point .
Clearly it did n't bother the listening public .
Since the song features the highly sensitive and emotional R&B boy-band Boyz II Men , a huge part of its listenership was women .
If you look at recent trends , taking the film or book versions of the Twilight series by Stephenie Meyer as examples , it would appear that contemporary notions of romance are still very closely connected with creepy guys -- it 's just a little more PC when it 's a woman 's dodgy fantasy rather than that of a giant , tattooed ex-convict looking bull of a man .
This song features a sample from the legendary singer Michael Jackson .
The sample comes from his song `` The Lady In My Life , '' which was one of just two songs on the Thriller album that was n't a hit .
Rod Temperton , who wrote several of Jackson 's hits , composed `` The Lady In My Life '' and got a songwriting credit on `` Hey Lover '' -LRB- along with LL Cool J -RRB- because of the sample .
Years after this song was released , aside from the stalking and the thing about the tongue , the types of sexist observations LL Cool J makes about the woman he is pursuing would be enough to cause widespread feminist outrage , but in 1997 , it won him his second Grammy for Best Rap Solo Performance .
His first Grammy was in the same category , for the song `` Mama Said Knock You Out '' from the 1992 album of the same name .
`` Hey Lover '' appeared on LL Cool J 's sixth studio album Mr. Smith , which was very successful , going platinum twice .
It was considered a serious comeback after his failed album 14 Shots to the Dome .
LL Cool J may be many things , but he is definitely not a gangster , and this hard-core attempt did not sit well with listeners .
`` Hey Lover '' shows his sensitive streak , and showcases the ballad Hip-Hop style that has become his trademark as he matured .
