Lana Del Rey is the daughter of real-estate investor , Rob Grant , whilst her mother is an advertising account executive .
She had a comfortable middle-class upbringing in the town of Lake Placid in rural New York .
This military-drummed ode to escapism and the rich life recalls Lana 's relationship with a wealthy boyfriend and reveling in the good times .
She explained to The Sun : `` I 've been with this guy off and on for a long time , but we used to just drive from New York in his car up to the Hamptons .
I remember thinking at the time it was just heaven .
It 's funny , all the songs are about the same thing -- going away with the one you love and then coming back home .
In having relationships , you 're able to explore other sides of yourself . ''
This song was co-written by David Sneddon , who won the BBC talent show Fame Academy in 2002 with his musical partner James Bauer-Mein .
Sneddon , who first started working with Del Rey in 2010 , told the Independent that the Video Games singer had been developing her music for a long time .
`` She 'd spent a while working on her sound before we met her , '' he said , `` so we were pretty quick to learn what she wanted out of a song .
The lyrics are incredibly personal to her and although she enjoys the mystique of Hollywood imagery , you 'll find a story wrapped up in every song . ''
Mandler told MTV News that he and Del Rey wanted to explore the idea of lost innocence on the clip .
`` What Lana was trying to do - this was her concept , she came to me with it , and I kind of dug it out with her - was really look and explore an archetype ; just like Shakespeare wrote ` Romeo and Juliet , ' and that became the archetype of the forbidden love story , '' he explained .
`` And I think the Kennedy relationship , certainly the triangle of Marilyn Monroe and Jackie O and Jack Kennedy , became this kind of ideal of what seemed perfect from the outside was maybe rotting from the inside , '' Mandler continued .
`` And Lana was really interested in exploring this loss of innocence , this idea that what you think you 're experiencing is maybe not what it 's always going to be .
Because when you say ` Kennedy , ' that immediately evokes something , just like when I say ` It 's a Romeo and Juliet story . '
So I think using that power , that pedigree of the story is a really fascinating place to show the loss of something , the breakdown of something . ''
Born Elizabeth Grant , Lana chose her own stage name .
She explained to Vogue magazine : `` I wanted a name I could shape the music towards -LSB- ... -RSB- I was going to Miami quite a lot at the time , speaking a lot of Spanish with my friends from Cuba - Lana Del Rey reminded us of the glamour of the seaside .
`` This song fits in well with the singer 's post-Lizzy Grant cinematic `` gangsta Nancy Sinatra '' public image .
`` We 're on a quick , sick rampage / wining and dining , drinking and driving / On our drugs and our love and our dreams and our rage / Blurring the lines between real and the fake , '' she sings .
The Anthony Mandler directed music video features Del Rey playing Jacqueline Kennedy and Marilyn Monroe , whilst rapper A$ AP Rocky portrays JFK .
The pair previously collaborated on The Kickdrum 's track `` Ridin , '' which was pulled from their Follow The Leaders mixtape .
Speaking with Noisey , Rocky said : `` Lana wrote the treatment with me in mind .
She wanted me to be the lead guy .
S -- t is like , everybody knows we got a thing for each other and we wanted to show that on screen . ''
