`` R.O.C.K. in the U.S.A. '' is subtitled `` A Salute to 60s Rock , '' and despite Mellencamp 's feeling that `` I do n't think people are getting the idea of what the song 's about , so I must 've not done a very good job , '' the song became a big hit .
It tells the story of how rock & roll emerged in America , and how those -LRB- now infamous -RRB- musicians that were not afraid to take personal risks for the sake of their music became a strong influence on the next generation , including Mellencamp , who sings : '' -LSB- They -RSB- Filled our head full of dreams , turned the world upside down .
`` Growing up , Mellencamp listened to AM radio at a time when the same station would play a mix of styles , exposing him to Rock , Folk , Soul and R&B at an early age .
Rolling Stone , when reviewing their `` 100 Best Albums of the Eighties , '' ranked Scarecrow at # 95 , and reported that Mellencamp 's band had spent the months prior to recording getting familiar with the rock repertoire from the '60s , practicing in what used to be a dog kennel at Mellencamp 's house .
Of this time , Mellencamp 's guitarist Larry Crane said , `` We got a bunch of those tapes you see advertised on TV with all the old songs on them , and God , we learned everything .
`` Mellencamp 's interest in recreating the sounds of the heyday of rock & roll has spanned his entire career ; in 2009 he recorded songs for the 2010 album No Better than This at Sun Studios -LRB- in the footsteps of Elvis -RRB- and other historical locations .
The recording techniques used for this album are purposefully raw in an attempt to reconnect with his roots , a reflection of Mellencamp 's ideology of `` Real music , for real people ! ''
The instrumental break in this song is very clever .
Mellencamp says the riff was lifted from Neil Diamond 's first hit , `` Cherry , Cherry . ''
When we first hear it , it 's played on an ocarina , which is a small wind instrument of ancient Eastern origins , thought to be 12,000 years old , and often made in the shape of a bird and used to imitate its fluting song .
This is a nod to the song `` Wild Thing '' by The Troggs , which featured an ocarina solo .
In Mellencamp 's song , the riff is then played on guitar and later on keyboards , going through various musical forms popular in '60s rock .
In concert , Mellencamp would often bring a fan onstage to dance with him during this section .
For the Scarecrow album , Mellencamp moved away from the stage-name , John Cougar , which had been given to him by Tony DeFries , his first manager , and became `` John Cougar Mellencamp '' -LRB- he would drop the `` cougar '' completely by 1989 -RRB- .
This was a fortunate move , because 2009 saw the release of the hit sitcom Cougar Town starring Courtney Cox -LRB- as the main `` cougar '' -RRB- .
The ensuing taunts that would have come with the transition of cultural interpretation from a cougar being a big , badass cat , to a sexy middle-aged woman , might have been enough to revive Mellencamp 's reputation as a hothead prone to bursts of anger in his old age .
As if continually being compared to Bruce Springsteen was n't enough ... In keeping with '60s hit single tradition , Mellencamp kept this song under 3 minutes long - it clocks in at 2:54 .
John Mellencamp released `` R.O.C.K. in the U.S.A. '' in 1985 on his eighth album Scarecrow .
The album peaked at # 2 in the US , with 3 Top-10 hit singles , this being the biggest .
The overall theme of the album is the decay of societal foundations in rural America , but this song is a departure from that theme .
Far from satirical , Mellencamp intends to portray a mournful U.S.A. that has been slowly eaten out from inside by the industries that substitute greed for the American Dream , but `` R.O.C.K. in the U.S.A '' was so against the grain of this album 's emotional profile that Mellencamp almost excluded it from the album .
In the lyrics to the song , Mellencamp name-drops several artists , particularly Frankie Lyman , Bobby Fuller , Mitch Ryder , Jackie Wilson , Shangra La 's , Young Rascals , Martha Reeves and James Brown .
These are references to the artists and bands that shaped his sound and influenced his early music.In this way , Mellencamp was paying homage , but he was also paying his dues .
For example , the late Bobby Fuller 's mention on a Top 10 song , and a platinum album , was enough to revive flagging interest in the artist -LRB- as well as get Mellencamp a credit on a Bobby Fuller Four Best-Of album -RRB- .
Said Mellencamp : `` When I played in Albuquerque , I think it was , his -LSB- Fuller 's -RSB- mom and some of his family came down to see me play .
They acted like I gave them 60 million dollars just for mentioning his name .
They gave me his belt that he died in . ''
In the months prior to recording Scarecrow , Mellencamp 's band worked their way through nearly a hundred cover songs .
Mellencamp hoped that through these covers , they would absorb the stylistic essence of the era through osmosis .
Mellencamp 's bassist Toby Myers admitted that , `` I thought he was giving us busywork , but he wanted us to understand what made those songs tick so we could put some of that grit into his songs . ''
The band was surprised by the sheer quantity of different styles that characterized the era .
`` Take an old Rascals song for example , '' Mellencamp said .
`` There 's everything from marching band beats to soul music to country sounds in one song . ''
This song forms part of a greater genre of songs that spell out words in the lyrics , like Otis Redding 's song `` Respect '' -LRB- made famous by Aretha Franklin -RRB- or `` Lola '' by the Kinks.Mellencamp 's title was n't too far from Bruce Springsteen 's `` Born In The U.S.A. , '' released a year earlier .
That song was often misinterpreted as a celebration of America , when it was really about the plight of a Vietnam War veteran .
