The R&B - inspired Rock band Alabama Shakes originated when lead singer/guitarist Brittany Howard approached bassist Zac Cockrell during a high school psychology class in Athens , Alabama and the pair began meeting after school to write songs .
Howard and Cockrell then approached Punk-Rock drummer Steve Johnson , who was working at a local music store , to join the band .
The trio recorded some of their songs in a studio in Decatur , Alabama and subsequently recruited guitarist Heath Fogg on his return to Athens from college in Tuscaloosa .
Originally christened `` The Shakes , '' the band later renamed themselves The Alabama Shakes in order to differentiate themselves from other bands with their original name.The Alabama foursome gained widespread media attention after releasing a self-titled four-song EP in September 2011 and Rough Trade Records in the United Kingdom and ATO Records in the United States signed them two months later .
This is their first single from their debut album , Boys & Girls .
Alabama Shakes played this during their US national television debut on February 7 , 2012 , on Conan .
This came top of Rolling Stone 's list of the top songs of 2012 .
The magazine said : `` In a year when most divas could n't get beyond post-Gaga spectacle , along came Brittany Howard , a twentysomething from Athens , Alabama , who reincarnated the ghost of Sixties rock and soul without resorting to oversinging histrionics or bald imitation . ''
This became the sixteenth different song titled `` Hold On '' to reach the Hot 100 when it entered the chart dated March 2 , 2013 , following Alabama Shakes ' appearance on Saturday Night Live .
In doing so , it increased its lead as the most frequently used song title in the chart 's history with `` Runaway '' running close behind with 14 different versions .
Howard sings on this song , `` Never thought I 'd make it to twenty-two years old , '' then calls out her own name .
When asked by American Songwriter magazine if she 's using poetic license in that fatalistic line , she replied by describing the night that the song first came together .
Fogg and Cockrell had already come up with its riff , but Howard had yet to pen its melody or any lyrics .
One night before playing a set at The Brick in Decatur , Howard instructed the musicians to start playing this song 's groove at some point in the evening .
`` We talked about playing it that night , and I told them , ` Just start playing it and I 'll make up words on the spot , ' '' she said .
`` That 's where the song came from .
It was a good night for dancing .
They started playing it , and I just came up with some words -- whatever was on my mind -- and that came out . ''
Howard explained the meaning of the , `` never thought I 'd make it to twenty-two years old , '' line to NME : `` It 's not necessarily that I did n't think I was going to make it to 22 , '' she explained .
`` It 's just like , you know when you 're younger and you ca n't imagine yourself ever being grown ?
I did n't like my job and I did n't like where I was living and I did n't like the way my world was .
You 're holding on but at the same time you 're tired of waiting for things to get better .
Why have you always got to want something better . ''
Alabama Shakes played this during their first appearance on Saturday Night Live along with `` Always Alright , '' which was written for the Silver Linings Playbook soundtrack .
Host Christoph Waltz managed to mess up their name when he introduced the band as the singular `` Alabama Shake . ''
