Lil Wayne originally wanted the album to contain several different versions of this bass-thumping track with young artists giving their different interpretations .
However these skits failed to make the final cut of Tha Carter III .
Bangladesh recalled his contribution to this track in a 2010 interview with MTV News : `` When I made it , I knew it was an important track .
I did n't know it was gon na be as big as it was .
I knew it was for Wayne .
I had plenty of people wanting to purchase the beat , but they was n't worthy enough .
Even if they was worthy , until I let Wayne hear it , I could n't move to nobody else .
I had that beat for two years , just holding it .
If you look at my career from -LRB- Ludacris 's -RRB- ` What 's Your Fantasy ' to ' A Milli , ' it 's kind of the same element of music .
Four or five sounds in the beat .
Simplicity .
Those are the things I 've learned since being in the industry . ''
This was produced by Shondrae `` Mr. Bangladesh '' Crawford who explained to Rhapsody that this track is basically Lil Wayne freestyling : `` This girl I produced for , Shanell , got it to him .
But I never went to the lab with him .
If I had my way , I would like it more .
But I was n't around , so what he felt , he put on there .
I just thought he would make more of a song out of it , honestly .
He 's just rapping .
If it was going on the mixtape , it 's cool , but not on no album or single .
It 's saying ' a milli . '
He needs to pop about being a millionaire .
He switched it up and tried to make it ` ill ' '' If that was somebody else , it would n't be on the radio .
They just f -- k with Wayne regardless .
That right there makes me like that s -- t , because it 's against the grain and it 's working .
That s -- t 's no format .
A n-gg-r went in , freestyled , and that s -- t 's all over the radio .
And it 's the hottest beat in hip-hop right now .
Every time I turn on Rap City , they in the booth rapping to the beat .
Busta Rhymes hit me not too long ago and said he did five verses to the beat and it ` rebirthed him . '
He was talking to me like I did this amazing reincarnation for him like , ' I sound like a newborn baby ! '' ''
