French DJ David Guetta 's fifth studio collection , Nothing But The Beat , is a double album .
The first disc features collaborations with artists from the R&B , Hip-Hop and Pop worlds , whilst the second disc is made up of purely electronic instrumental tracks .
This tune , featuring Dutch music producer and DJ Afrojack , is from the second disc and was released digitally on August 15 , 2011 as the second of three promotional singles .
Guetta devotes all his energies to dance music .
He explained to Artist Direct : `` That 's why the album 's called Nothing But The Beat , because that 's my life .
I play records when I DJ almost every night .
I do about 150 gigs a year .
The rest of the time , I just make beats and work on music .
I do n't really have time for anything else .
I have a family .
I already do n't have enough time for them . ''
The song samples `` Do n't You Want My Love , '' a 1989 track by the New Jersey female R&B / house vocal trio Jomanda .
Guetta told MTV News that he hoped those fans who buy the record for the voice-oriented album will also listen to the less commercial electronic disc .
`` I feel that I am very blessed that my music has been crossing over but at the same time , my original fans , they 're still the most important ones , '' he insisted .
`` And I 'm a DJ first , so my music is very electronic even though I make songs now and they 're being played on the radio .
But the fact that I come from a very instrumental culture , it 's still in me .
So I made this electronic album for my original fans , for everybody that came to Electric Daisy Carnival in Vegas , that are raving and partying every weekend .
But also , I made this electronic album because I want the people that know me for what they heard on the radio and that are buying my album for the big songs , I also want them to discover where I 'm coming from and the other side of me . ''
Guetta released a different edition of Nothing But The Beat for the US market .
The American version is a single CD comprising the tracks included on Disc 1 of the international edition plus `` Lunar '' from Disc 2 .
