The first nine tracks of Cuban-American singer-songwriter Gloria Estefan 's 11th studio album tells the tale of a young girl who hooks up with the wrong guy in Miami after moving there from Cuba .
All the tracks on the album were written or co-written by Pharrell Williams of The Neptunes .
Though Gloria is herself a Cuban émigré living in Miami , the story is not biographical as the only lover she has had has been her husband , Emilio Estefan .
The singer told The Associated Press who Miss Little Havana represents .
`` Miss Little Havana is a typical story of any young girl that has dreams , that wants to break out and be free .
Those were some of my dreams as well .
Obviously I come from a different kind of background that kept me very close to the family for a long time , but I was actually 17 when I joined the band .
So although it 's not exactly my story , it 's any girl that is looking for something , that has dreams and aspirations , and of course sometimes the men get in the way , because you 're looking for love and sometimes you hook up with the wrong on - I 've been lucky that I did n't . ''
Speaking to The Associated Press , Estefan said that Miss Little Havana was n't originally conceived as a story .
She explained : `` Oddly enough , when we were writing , we did not set any kind of parameters , we were just feeling out how each one works , and that 's a very intimate process .
But it was n't until we finished writing the nine songs ... -LRB- that -RRB- I told Pharrell , ` Pharrell , there 's a story here . '
I put the order of the album actually together to emphasize that story ... -LRB- and -RRB- then , he did n't know I did this , but I picked three little ... phone messages -LRB- I got from Pharrell -RRB- after one of the songs , and I thought , ` I 'm going to emphasize even more this thing . '
... Miss Little Havana tells the story of who she is , then she hooks up with an ex on the dance floor , he calls her -- ` Come let 's party ' -- you get a couple of songs where they are back together and then at the end she realizes he 's still a dog -LRB- laughs -RRB- ... It was fun to do . ''
