According to the Independent newspaper July 22 , 2011 , the song was inspired by a girl that Courtney Taylor-Taylor , the Dandy Warhols ' guitarist and principal songwriter , found himself fantasizing about .
He recalled how he was idly looking out of his apartment window watching traffic pull up at the lights below .
`` An early Eighties BMW 320i with a primer-grey front-left quarter panel stops there with an amazing looking young woman behind the wheel , '' Taylor Taylor said .
`` Her elbow was hangin ' out the window at a jaunty angle and her roots were showing .
She had a cool tattoo for that time and her face was exquisite . ''
A one time car mechanic , the Dandy Warhol found himself desperately daydreaming her car might break down and he could spring to the rescue .
`` I sat there willing steam to pour from the hood of her car .
I almost gave myself a hernia I was willing so hard .
`` As the lights changed and she pulled away , Taylor-Taylor started strumming some chords on his guitar .
Then he began to fantasize about what a relationship would be like with the mystery girl , in the shape of a one-sided conversation .
`` My silly little brain ran amok with the dream of love and vintage motor malfunctions , '' he recalled .
`` It was only natural to weave it into a song on the spot .
I was overwhelmed , ya know ? ''
His fantasy about the vision of loveliness at the traffic lights became `` Bohemian Like You .
`` So did he ever find out who the car girl was ?
`` Sadly I never saw her again , although I asked around a lot with my German-car buddies , '' said Taylor-Taylor .
`` One dude told me she was a pastry chef .
Needless to say I ate a lot of pastries that week . ''
When this song was first released in the UK in 2000 , it failed to chart .
After its prominent placement in a Vodaphone commercial , however , it was re-released and it eventually reached # 5 .
The success of this tune helped The Dandys sell over 200,000 copies of Thirteen Tales From Urban Bohemia in the UK alone .
This is the theme music for the BBC Radio Five sports phone-in show 6-0-6 .
Many people , especially those in the UK , know this song because it was featured in a Vodaphone commercial .
It was also featured in more than a dozen films and TV shows in North America , and guitarist Pete Holmstrom is OK with the commercialization of the tune .
When we talked to Holmstrom in 2012 , he said , `` as far as I 'm concerned , anyway that works is fine by me .
`` Holmstrom added that royalties the band made from this song 's advertisements paid for some of the creative luxuries they enjoy .
Holmstrom claimed the tune `` paid for our independence '' and said that the band would n't have been able to build a studio called the Odditorium in Portland without the extra cash .
The music video for this song is very controversial and contains depictions of full-frontal male nudity as well as topless female nudity .
The clip was rarely broadcast without the offending images pixilated .
