Originally written and recorded by rock singer-songwriter and pianist Leon Russell for his 1970 eponymous first solo album , this song is a plea for forgiveness and understanding from an estranged lover .
It soon sprung a series of cover versions including ones by Andy Williams , which peaked at # 82 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1971 , Donny Hathaway , whose interpretation is considered one of his signature songs and the Carpenters who made it the title track of their 1972 album .
Later in 1993 Ray Charles recorded a poignant version of the song for his My World album .
His rendition warned him a Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance .
Whitney Houston performed the song for the troops and their families returning from the Gulf War on March 31 , 1991 and later recorded an upbeat disco version for her 2009 comeback album , I Look to You .
Winehouse previously referenced her regard for Donny Hathaway when she sings on `` Rehab : '' `` There 's nothing you can teach me/That I ca n't learn from Mr Hathaway . ''
Donny Hathaway was Winehouse 's all-time favorite artist and during the spring of 2009 she recorded her own interpretation of Hathaway 's version in one take , at a studio that she had built at home in her attic .
Winehouse laid down the track in the midst of her struggles with drugs and alcohol and the recording ended up as the closing track of her first posthumous album , Lioness : Hidden Treasures .
`` She said to me , we can make the new album here , '' the song 's producer Salaam Remi recalled during a listening session .
`` We do n't have to worry about the paparazzi .
She was just lying down on a couch , with the mic in her hand and by about halfway through the song she was crying , really weeping , with makeup running down her face . ''
Remi took this bare recording of just Winehouse and guitar and added further production to it .
After this song finishes playing , we hear a snippet of Winehouse talking to Remi , discussing her hero .
`` Donny Hathaway , '' we hear her say .
`` It was like he could n't contain himself ... he had something in him , you know . ''
