This song was conceived as a ballad by Wang Chung 's Jack Hues and Nick Feldman , which is how it appears on the original demo .
It was produced by Peter Wolf -LRB- not the lead singer of The J. Geils Band - this Peter Wolf is a composer from Vienna -RRB- , who also got a writing credit on the song .
On the Just My Show podcast with Eric Greenberg , Hues explained : `` Most of the time we write separately , but ` Everybody Have Fun Tonight ' is actually quite a collaborative song .
When we came up with the original line , I then went away and wrote with a ` Hey Jude ' style ballad around it , trying to be ironic .
And then when we got in the studio with Peter Wolf , he was like , ` This is an amazing dance hit , you rock the tempo , you 've got to really deliver what the title suggests .
` The original demo we recorded in Nick 's flat in London around Christmas time I think one Monday , because it had all these sort of like sleigh bells and stuff on it .
And I just wanted it to have that kind of weird Disney-esque sort of atmosphere .
But things obviously change as people hear the songs and see certain potentials in it .
And after To Live and Die in LA we did have a choice facing us , which is , Okay you can do more movies , you can be sort of arty if you want , but you wo n't necessarily get support for that .
Or you can go and have a hit record , which is what the label always wants from you .
And we pretty consciously chose to have a proper hit record and sort of establish ourselves . ''
In his appearance on Just My Show , Hues added : `` Growing up at the end of the '60s and into the '70s , I was at that very impressionable age and thought that music could really change the world - it actually did really change the world at the end of the '60s .
I probably had that as a subtext in everything I was writing .
It may not be worthy of all of that early '60s and '70s stuff , the music I still love , but it was our little contribution . ''
What exactly does it mean to `` Wang Chung '' ?
Maybe nothing , but perhaps there is a deep spiritual meaning rooted in ancient Buddhism .
`` Huang Chung '' is Chinese for `` Yellow Bell , '' and refers to what they believed was the perfect pitch for music , and a manifestation of the divine .
Nick Feldman , who is half of the duo Wang Chung , once said : `` Wang Chung is the feeling , not the word .
It represents an abstract , an escape from pragmatic , complex ideas .
Wang Chung means whatever you want it to mean .
Have fun with it .
That 's the whole idea of the line ` Everybody Wang Chung Tonight . '
It can mean a tribal dance , a Viennese waltz , a party in New York , or whatever . ''
There have been many pop culture references to this song , but perhaps the most famous was when the uptight psychiatrist Frasier Crane was ready for his bachelor party on the TV show Cheers .
When Frasier enters the bar , he says , `` I was listening to a Rock and Roll station on my way over to put me in the mood , and there was a passage from one of those trifling songs that I feel is the keynote this evening : Everybody have fun tonight , everybody Wang Chung tonight . ''
Bands have referred to themselves in their song lyrics before -LRB- `` In A Big Country , '' `` Bad Company -RRB- , but this is the only hit song we know of where the band name was used as a verb .
The line `` Everybody Wang Chung tonight '' perplexed listeners and created a memorable catch phrase that etched the song in history .
This being the '80s , unusual lyrics combined with a catchy beat made for some of the biggest hits .
As Holly Knight , who wrote `` Obsession '' and `` Love Is A Battlefield '' explained , `` You come up with something that 's very infectious and anthemic , and the key is to try and put something out of the box on top of that , throw a wrench . ''
This song is also known for its spasmodic video , which is full of extremely quick cuts between similar images .
If the song is about musical purity , the video is the opposite , creating a dissonance that left some viewers literally sick .
Regarding the video , Hues explained : `` It was delivering a song that 's essentially very upbeat and intentionally amusing .
We were n't super serious about ` this is an amazing song that 's gon na change your life . '
It is just sort of like , get out there , have a great time , do n't worry too much .
I remember when we did the video with Kevin Godley and Lol Crème , they thought I should be singing straight to camera in a very intense way and very serious way with this pretty lighthearted song .
And I think that really works in that video.The video that everybody was in love with around that time was Peter Gabriel 's ` Sledgehammer , ' anything with a bit of stop-frame in it was cool .
It was actually banned in the UK , because some BBC guys said that that particular frame rate could cause epileptic seizures in people . ''
In the original slow version , the words `` Wang Chung '' are said just once .
Regarding the repetition of the phrase in on the single , Hues explained that Peter Wolf encouraged them to do so to help promote the band .
Said Hues : `` In retrospect it was probably one of the better commercial decisions we ever made . ''
