Like `` Soundgarden , '' `` Black Hole Sun '' is the name of a sculpture found in Seattle .
It 's in Volunteer Park on Capitol Hill .
It looks kind of like a huge , black doughnut and it 's aimed so you can see the Space Needle through the middle of it .
The lyrics do n't have any particular meaning .
-LRB- thanks , Greg - Portland , OR -RRB- This song got a lot of radio play because the Alternative format and `` Grunge '' sound were popular at the time and Top 40 radio stations were playing a lot of songs by artists like Soundgarden , Pearl Jam , and Stone Temple Pilots .
The song was covered by Peter Frampton on his 2006 instrumental album Fingerprints .
The lyrics were replaced by Frampton on guitar , playing through his trademark `` talk box , '' through which he simulated the pitch of the vocals , but not the words .
The only distinguishable words -LRB- played through the talk box -RRB- in the rendition are `` Black hole sun , wo n't you come , '' which can be heard in the verses after the bridge/guitar solo .
Fingerprints won the 2007 Grammy for Best Pop Instrumental Album .
-LRB- thanks , Colin - North Dartmouth , MA -RRB- The album debut at # 1 in the United States .
It did a lot better than their previous album , which peaked at # 39 .
This won a Grammy for Best Hard Rock Performance .
The surreal Howard Greenhalgh-directed video finds the band performing the song in an open field as a suburban neighborhood are swallowed up by a black hole .
Speaking with Artist Direct in a 2012 interview , Cornell said that at the time he had made a number of videos with directors who did n't understand where the band was coming from and he was disillusioned with the whole process .
`` We just read treatments for it , and Howard Greenhalgh 's treatment just read weird as the video turned out , '' he recalled .
`` I suggested we just pick one that we want , try to find a great one , and let the guy do whatever he wants , '' continued Cornell .
`` We should just be there and not emote , not pretend to be excited to play the song , deadpan , stand there , and do absolutely nothing .
We chose his treatment because it seemed interesting .
I told him on the phone , ` We 're not going to do anything .
You 're not going to get anything out of us .
We 're just going to stand there because we do n't want to do this anymore . ' .
Somehow , for whatever reason , he loved that.I love the video because it worked .
It just happened to be a guy with a great idea who happened to believe in our notion that we 're reluctant video stars who are going to give you nothing .
The contrast of us giving you nothing and your vision is actually going to be better than if we 're jumping around acting like crazy rock people and you 're doing these flash jump-cut edits and crazy lighting .
We 're weird enough as it is , and we 're tired of trying to not be .
It worked .
It was a big lesson .
If you get out of somebody 's way , or collaborate in the right way , a good thing can come out of it . ''
