The first official single released by Hanson , off their Anthem album , is a '60s Motown influenced soulful track complete with horns and a steady bass beat .
Taylor Hanson told Radio.com that the throwback feel was definitely premeditated .
`` Anybody 's that followed our band knows that a huge part of our story is listening to classic rock & roll and soul music , '' he said .
`` We actually dedicated the song to a famous bass player , Bob Babbitt , who played on so much Motown music and actually played on our last record .
He passed away before we could make this record so there 's a legitimate connection to that era through Bob . ''
Taylor continued : `` We really wanted this song to bring people in because we reasserted the '60s soul influence on the last album , and this song continued that tradition so much that it was such a perfect bridge from Shout it Out , our last record .
It actually captures a part that is really essential to this band , which is melody and danceable rhythm .
Songs that you put on and you want to drive , you want to move , it gets you out and it pulls you in .
It has melody to carry itself .
It also tells the story of where we 've been and acts as the gateway drug into a whole new record of music . ''
The song is a collaboration with Los Angeles Neo-Soul/Indie Pop band Fitz and the Tantrums .
The Hanson brothers originally connected with them when they were touring Shout It Out .
Taylor Hanson explained to The Idolator : `` We heard their record , and we both had mutual respect and admiration for what each other 's music .
And how it started was like , ` Hey !
We 're fans of you guys , ' and they felt the same way .
So once we met , we tried to figure out what we could do together .
We had to go back to a song called , ` I 've Got Soul , ' and there is a verse that Fitz sings .
And we felt those two songs made sense musically .
They were able to develop this neo-soul punk thing that 's something that we love as well .
And with the single , ` Get the Girl Back , ' we love the idea of mixing their sound and put it into that record . ''
The song 's music video stars American actresses Kat Dennings -LRB- Two Broke Girls -RRB- and Nikki Reed -LRB- Twilight , Thirteen -RRB- .
Zac Hanson told Entertainmentwise about the clip : `` Kat and Nikki were both friends that we had met through mutual admiration of each other !
We were fans of them , and they were fans of our music and basically we just said ` Hey !
You guys wan na do a music video ? '
and they both wanted to do it .
And really , the direction of celebrities was really just a very natural group of friends that came together . ''
`` What we wanted to create in the feeling of the video , '' continued Zac , `` was not just telling the story of the song , you know , ` Get the Girl Back , ' but to create that sense of that cool show that everybody 's been to , or everybody waited outside of to try and get in to .
The dance break that everybody wishes would happen at the show they 're at , but we wanted it to be something cinematic , like a movie , not something that 's just gone .
It 's something that could continue . ''
