If you grew up in the Boondocks -LRB- or `` The Boonies '' -RRB- , by can relate to this song about rural life .
When we spoke with Phillip Sweet of Little Big Town , he told us : `` Me and Jimi -LRB- Westbrook -RRB- and Kimberly -LRB- Schlapman -RRB- grew up in really small towns , population below 2,000 .
But Karen -LRB- Fairchild -RRB- , she had Southern parents but grew up in Atlanta .
But it 's not like she was that far removed from our whole thing .
She grew up in the South , too , and she just happened to grow up in a little bit bigger metropolitan area as a kid .
So we tease her about being a city girl , but she was n't a city girl .
She was born in Griffith , Indiana .
She 's like , ` That 's the armpit of America . ' ''
There are lot of locals in the video , along with the daughter of Wayne Kirkpatrick , who helped write and produce the song .
Said Sweet : `` They directed it like a little bit of a casting call in the local town and people showed up and we picked 'em out and found some cool ones .
Now , they did do that kind of stuff ; they came out of the woods and got together and had cookouts and field parties and that kind of stuff .
That 's what we wanted , that authenticity , so you believe that they actually did that stuff .
It was cool .
I like that element of real and gritty . ''
Little Big Town 's business affairs were in disarray when they wrote this song , which was part of their first album released on Clint Black 's record label , Equity Music Group .
Phillip Sweet told us how the song came together : `` We were towards the end of getting dropped from Sony at that time .
And we started making this music in that void .
And there was a song that Wayne had , this little rolling , picking thing .
It was like ` Bones . '
The song ` Bones ' and ` Boondocks ' lived in the same world there for a minute .
` Boondocks , ' the original title for that was ` Waiting For the Sun to Go Down . '
But that line was actually used in ` Bones . '
And you get that rolling/picking thing.So you had that little piece that eventually became a line in ` Bones . '
But ` Boondocks , ' that melody , we were n't really jiving on ` waiting for the sun to go down ' - that just was n't strong enough for the end of that melody that ` Boondocks ' was .
So we lived with it for a little bit , we all tried to work on the lyric .
But then one day Wayne came in and he said , ` What if it was : ' I feel no shame , I 'm proud of where I came from , I was born and raised in the boondocks . ''
And we were like ` Yeah . '
It was just instant .
And that song took off and it became what it was.And when we started working on ` Bones , ' just -LRB- singing -RRB- ` what goes around comes around , feel it breathing down heavy on you . '
All that stuff , real moody , it just seemed to fit that lyric , that context seemed to fit better into that kind of music .
So it worked its way into ` Bones , ' which turned out to be another thing.But really ` Boondocks ' was inspired by us just wanting to speak about who we are and what we 're about .
Because there seemed to be a little bit of confusion there at Sony when we were signed there that we were a put-together band , or we were n't country , we 're too slick .
And nowadays you would n't even get those kind of questions , but at that time it just seemed really strange .
And I do n't think radio really understood who we were yet .
So we just wanted to write this , and it was therapy for us and it was a chance for us to really make a statement about our roots .
And that 's really what it was . ''
