This was released as the second single of English R&B singer and former Floetry member Marsha Ambrosius ' debut solo album , Late Night and Early Mornings .
Produced by New Jersey beatsmith Just Blaze , it was written by Marsha Ambrosius together with American R&B singer songwriter Sterling Simms .
Ambrosius has a strong gay following and the song 's music video tackles homophobia and suicide .
She told the Associated Press : `` I lost a friend and I 've had friends that have attempted suicide .
There are people that do n't have a voice to speak out and show what is happening and what can happen , so I just wanted people to see the honesty in it and be aware . ''
Ambrosius initially wrote the song after a close friend attempted suicide .
`` Because they 're in such a bad place in their lives , there 's nothing you can do to help someone if they ca n't help themselves , '' she said in an interview with The Associated Press .
Ambrosius told MTV News that crafting the song gave her an opportunity to empower people like her friend who are struggling with abusive situations related to their sexuality .
`` The concept for ` Far Away ' definitely was n't unexpected for me as it was a personal experience that I 'd had in writing the song .
It came from a personal experience I was going through ` round about the time I wrote it , which is 2008 , -LSB- when -RSB- a friend of mine attempted to commit suicide , '' she explained .
`` Being a friend of someone that is in such a dark place , you ca n't be there for them as a friend because it 's one of the most heart-wrenching things you can go through , not being able to help someone.So a couple years later I get to do ` Far Away ' for my album , and it felt only right to portray the story as it was in such an honest form .
And I think many people that go through the same circumstance do n't get to tell their story .
And I think that 's where , I guess , people are getting with the shock value ; that I 'm attacking a subject matter that 's often shunned upon and overlooked .
But it 's happening to real people -- it happened to a friend of mine -- and I wanted to give that to those that do n't have that voice . ''
