This is a song by American experimental electro-pop band Black Cards , who were formed in July 2010 as Fall Out Boy bassist Pete Wentz ' new main project .
Wentz explained to Artist Direct why the band chose to showcase this track on their website before they 'd released any material .
`` We debated lots of different things .
I just want to put more and more music out there , in general .
To me , the album is so vast .
It goes from one really musically dark perspective to a way more pop perspective .
` Dr Jekyll and Mr. Fame ' felt like it fit in the middle between the two .
Everyone agreed not to put out the extremities first .
Obviously , the first thing you put out is what people think of your band as .
There will be songs on the record that are so far to the right or to the left of ` Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Fame . ' ''
This track finds Wentz looking at the nature of fame .
It is not the first time the Fall Out Boy bassist has written lyrics about the topic and he told Artist Direct : `` As far as talking about fame , I feel like there was always this condemnation in the lyrics that made it seem like , ` Oh , famous guy complaining about fame ! '
I never really feel like I talked about the allure of it and the reason that people become famous .
There 's also the dance you do around wanting make your art but needing a certain amount of attention on your art .
I 've been able to watch it in my own life and see different people at different levels of it .
I 've never written a story where the character buys into it , and I wanted that to happen .
I think that 's what ` Dr. Jekyll ' does more than anything , especially in the chorus .
At the end of the day , I understand why people will buy into fame , and it makes sense .
It 's not complaining or saying anyone is an idiot ; this is just another narrative that exists . ''
Wentz explained to Artist Direct : `` The song picks up where I was thinking about life when Fall Out Boy put out Infinity On High , but I do n't think I really explained the story the way I should 've .
I also do n't think it probably made sense to a lot of people , but it was cool to revisit the idea .
That 's one of the other reasons I wanted to get it out there .
`` Infinity On High was released in 2006 as Fall Out Boy 's fourth album .
The title was taken from a letter written by troubled Dutch post-Impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh to his brother Theo in 1888 , in which he described his renewed health and the vigor it had instilled in his painting .
Van Gogh 's exact phrasing has been translated as `` Be clearly aware of the stars and infinity on high .
Then life seems almost enchanted after all . ''
The song title comes from the nickname ` Jekyll and Hyde , ' used for a person displaying two completely different characters , one respectable , the other not .
The phrase is derived from the eponymous character in Robert Louis Stevenson 's The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde -LRB- 1886 -RRB- who , by means of a drug , could switch between good and evil in his own nature .
Stevenson wrote the story within in his Bournemouth Villa after a bad dream , which outlined the plot .
The nightmare consisted of a man being pressed into a cabinet where he swallowed a drug and changed into another being .
Stevenson based his tale on William Brodie a respected businessman and Edinburgh town councillor by day and a leader of a gang of robbers by night , who was eventually caught .
The Scottish novelist showed the short story to his wife who suggested it should be a full length allegory , rather than just an essay , so he burnt the manuscript and rewrote it in three days .
Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde originally appeared as a shilling shocker before becoming one of Stevenson 's most successful novels .
