This is the title track from Obituary 's second studio album , Cause of Death .
It was written by on-again / off-again lead guitarist Allen West , who wrote half the songs on the album before his departure.About the line-up : Vocalist John and drummer Donald Tardy are indeed brothers and founders of the band .
Trevor Peres is on rhythm guitar .
Then there 's Frank Watkins on bass , replacing Daniel Tucker who got amnesia from a car crash and disappeared .
That leaves lead guitar James Murphy brought in to replace Allen West .
Also in Precious Metal , the band is quite candid on their lyrical practices .
Trevor Peres states : `` To be honest , still to this day , I have not seen a lyric sheet of a whole entire song .
No one ever has . ''
John Tardy fesses : `` I do n't know if I just get to the points in songs where instead of trying to make up some words or write down something that means something , I 'm more concerned with the way it just sounds . ''
Peres also explains : `` You 'll hear in 'Cause of Death ' he says 'cause of death ' in there .
But lyrically , we never did have a concept like , ` Let 's sing about world peace ! ' ''
The whole Allen West / James Murphy saga , sourced from Precious Metal : Decibel Presents the Stories Behind 25 Extreme Metal Masterpieces : West discovered he was a father and had a temporary freak-out over having a kid and not having enough money .
So he leaves .
Bassist Frank Watkins originally wanted to call up his friend , Trey Azagthoth of Morbid Angel , but decided against it .
James Murphy just happened to leave Death -LRB- the band -RRB- at this time and called up producer Scott Burns on a whim , who said - what a coincidence !
- we just happen to have another death metal group here who needs guitar !
As Murphy tells it , he just got home from the Death tour , unpacked his bags , went to the studio the next morning , and by that evening he was recording .
But the band warned him that if West came back , they 'd take him over Murphy .
Murphy was already feeling like an outsider to the band by the time they were touring Cause of Death , so when the band met for rehearsal and discovered Allen West 's truck parked in the Tardy brother 's driveway , he left without argument .
`` Cause of Death '' was the first song played for Watkins when he was brought it .
The band was literally jamming in the Tardy brother 's garage when Watkins met with them , and he learned it right off the bat ; as the other band members commented , he knew it even better than they had it down .
