This tender , vaudeville-style piano ballad is about singer Alison Mosshart 's inability to `` survive on a halfhearted love that will never be whole . ' ''
It is possibly the most un-Kills-like track the duo has ever recorded .
`` It just sounds like it dropped out of the sky , like it 's always been around , '' guitarist Jamie Hince told Billboard magazine : `` It sounds like one of those classic songs .
That 's easily one of my favorites on the record , probably because it is so different . ''
Hince said of the ballad 's nostalgic piano sound to Nowness : `` I wanted to make it completely different from anything we 'd normally do .
I used an octagon keyboard from the '60s which takes flexi-discs with real bands playing and mixes them together . ''
The song 's music video was directed by actress Samantha Morton -LRB- Minority Report , In America -RRB- and shot in monochrome on silvery 35mm .
The Kills performed their first gig on February 14 , 2002 in front of 70 people and the photo booth set clip , which features a series of touching camera poses reflecting the pair 's longstanding friendship , celebrates ten years of the transatlantic duo .
Said Hince of Mosshart to Nowness : `` She 's my best friend and has been in every aspect of my life . ''
The song finds Mosshart unleashing her inner cabaret singer .
Blood Pressures was written and recording whilst the vocalist moonlighted with the Dead Weather .
Hince told Spinner he felt that the vocalist 's time with Jack White 's outfit had given her , `` a voice much stronger and more confidence vocally , '' that was a bit of a double-edged sword .
`` For me , I like the vulnerable side of her voice , '' he said .
`` I do n't just like the loud rock voice .
To me , using that is almost like cheating .
I like the vulnerability in her voice , when it cracks and wavers on words .
If anything , Dead Weather made me want to steer -LSB- the Kills ' sound -RSB- away from rock .
I did n't want this to be a straight rock record . ''
Said Mosshart regarding the song 's meaning to Nowness : `` Life goes on .
It starts off being the end of the world but then ends up alright . ''
