This song has two likely influences : Iggy Pop and Cyrinda Foxe .
Many of the lyrics reflect Iggy Pop 's lifestyle and stage antics -LRB- he often slithered around on stage and cut himself -RRB- .
Cyrinda Foxe was an actress who starred in commercials for Jean Genie jeans .
Legend has it that Bowie wrote this in Foxe 's apartment in an effort to entertain her .
Foxe would go on to appear in the song 's official video alongside Bowie.Cyrinda Foxe was Aerosmith lead singer Steven Tyler 's first wife - they married not long after she broke up with David Johansen of The New York Dolls .
They had a daughter together , but got a bitter divorce .
In 1996 , she wrote a tell-all book about Tyler called Dream On , alleging that he did n't pay much child support .
Tyler tried unsuccessfully to stop publication , and was very angry with Foxe , but they became friends once again when Cyrinda learned she had brain cancer .
Tyler paid her medical bills until her death in 2002 .
This was one of the first tracks Bowie wrote in New York City .
He loves the city and has written many of his songs there .
In 2001 , Bowie opened the `` Concert For New York , '' a tribute to the police , firemen , and rescue workers involved in the World Trade Center attacks .
The lyric , `` He 's so simple minded , he ca n't drive his module , '' provided the inspiration for the remaining members of Johnny & The Self Abusers to become Simple Minds , who later scored a # 1 US hit with `` Do n't You -LRB- Forget About Me -RRB- . ''
Aladdin Sane was ranked at # 277 on Rolling Stone 's `` The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time . ''
The album art shows a closed-eyed Bowie with a red and blue lightning bolt painted across his face - an image that would later be replicated by Lady GaGa .
On the Santa Monica '72 live album , Bowie says that this is about a `` a New York lady and a guy who lives in New York and he 's called The Jean Genie '' -LRB- referring to the rebellious French writer Jean Genet -RRB- .
In 1973 , Bowie spoke to NME about this song : `` I wanted to get the same sound the Stones had on their very first album on the harmonica .
I did n't get that near to it , but it had a feel that I wanted -- that '60s thing . ''
In 2011 , a cameraman named John Henshall found a tape of Bowie performing `` The Jean Genie '' live on the British music show , Top of the Pops , in 1973 - a performance that had thought to have been erased .
In December 2011 , the performance aired for the first time since January 1973 .
You can watch the footage - which was filmed using Telefex Fisheye lenses which Henshall himself designed - here .
