On this song , Ginuwine sings about trying to save a relationship .
Ginuwine commented that this song `` reflects the maturity of my personal growth over the past few years . ''
VH1 reality star/singer Ray J , actor Tyrese Gibson , comedian Alex Thomas and fashion designer and actress Lisa Raye all make appearances in the song 's music video .
The American songwriter and record producer Adonis Shropshire -LRB- `` My Boo -RRB- wrote this song .
In an interview with Clayton Perry posted on Blogcritics Magazine Ginuwine said that this song `` is significant for many reasons . ''
He explained : `` When I come up with names of songs on a CD , it might actually mean more than what it 's actually talking about .
In this one , it really signified how I feel about the game and how I feel about myself in the game : If I do n't do it right this time , this is my last chance .
Another reason was because it was to me a hit done by Bryan-Michael Cox and written by Adonis .
When I did it the first day , I knew that there was something special about that song .
I still feel that regardless of how much success it has .
In my heart I just felt that it was a special song .
I always believed that if you 're going to sell a song , you should be able to perform it and believe in it .
That 's a song that I can perform and believe in .
People will feel that when they hear me sing it and see me perform it .
For me , it is a smash and that 's pretty much why I picked it . ''
Ginuwine reunited with Bryan-Michael Cox , the man who produced most of his 2003 album The Senior , on this song .
This was the first single to be released American R&B singer Ginuwine 's sixth studio album , A Man 's Thoughts .
In an interview with djbooth.net , the interviewer told Ginuwine that Michael Jordan had his best basket in 1991 , yet Ginuwine sings : `` If I only have one shot to win , then call me Jordan , fourth quarter in ' 92 . ''
The R&B singer responded : `` You did your homework !
But , you know , what I was actually talkin ' about was the game that he played when he was real , real , real sick - it was n't really about the most points he scored , it was about how he still went through adversity , facing adversity he played through it and still came out a champion , still came out a winner .
So that 's more so what it was about . ''
Ginuwine explained to Clayton Perry how he processed the album : `` Processing this album from the beginning was more of just going in there and letting everything come to me , as it has throughout my career .
With every CD , I knew sometime in the middle or towards the end I will come up with the name -- which happened .
I did n't go in and say , ` Okay , the name of this CD is going to be A Man 's Thoughts . '
We 've done over 40 songs and every song I started pulling out to make the CD started reflecting a man 's thoughts , how we think -- things that women do n't know .
This CD will -- in some shape , sort or fashion -- will tell them the ways that we think sometimes , not in all situations but in some .
A Man 's Thoughts just fit .
I was looking at a lot of the titles and I was like , ` Wow , A Man 's Thoughts would be hot for this . '
I came up with like four , to tell you the truth , but that one stuck out .
I even wrote all four on a piece of paper -- it might just be three , I do n't remember -- and showed them to some of the people that were at the studio .
I said , ` Do n't think too much about what you 're looking at .
Just tell me what pops out at you . '
95 % of the people picked A Man 's Thoughts -- there 's just something about that name . ''
