This was released as the second single from Paramore 's self-titled album .
The band performed the song live for the first time on March 13 , 2013 at the South by Southwest Festival in Austin , Texas .
Paramore received a lot of treatments for the video , which focused literally on the song 's lyrics about Hayley Williams ' relationship with Chad Gilbert .
However the concept that director Isaac Rentz -LRB- Tegan and Sara 's `` Closer , '' blink-182 's `` After Midnight '' -RRB- came up with was a welcome change .
Guitarist Taylor York told MTV News : `` A lot of people would hear the song and assume it would be about the story of people still being in love , but what was so appealing about Isaac 's treatment is that he wanted to capture what love feels like .
So a lot of it is us trying to embody that , just having a blast .
Riding bikes indoors , swimming in a sea of balloons , trying to create that magical feeling , visually .
He had so many ideas , and it definitely jumped out at us . ''
The song 's use of synthesizers surprised some the band 's fans , used to Paramore 's guitar-orientated rock sound .
York explained to MTV News it served as an introduction to the wide range of styles and sonics the trio explored on Paramore . ''
` Still Into You , came from our old way of doing things not working anymore ; it came out of frustration , '' said York .
`` We 'd be frustrated , and then we would just randomly play something on an instrument and it would spark something .
` Still Into You ' started -LSB- with -RSB- an organ part , and somehow it turned into this pop song .
It took a cool shape that is different for us , I do n't think you can be too worried that it 's different , because this is what we believe in , and we 're excited about it . ''
The song finds Williams opening up about her relationship with boyfriend Chad Gilbert .
We hear her recounting the first night she met the New Found Glory guitarist 's mother , before adding , `` and on the drive back to my house .
I told you that I loved ya . ''
Williams told Spin magazine ; '' ` Still Into You ' is definitely a love song .
It 's definitely happy .
But to me anyway - and obviously I wrote it so maybe I 'm biased , but - it 's not a sappy love song .
We wrote ` The Only Exception ' a while ago , and that song is definitely like a slow love ballad , and this is totally not that song .
I 'm excited for that !
We 've never done that before , and honestly I do n't have a whole lot of experience writing love songs , or anyways lyrics that are like this . ''
Hayley Williams told MTV News this is the kind of tune that she never thought she 'd write .
`` I 'm not one to write a lot of love songs , so it surprised me , '' she laughed .
`` And we got to the chorus , I remember asking Taylor -LSB- York -RSB- ` Is this too poppy ?
Can I do this ?
Can I sing it like this ? '
And I remember Taylor saying ` Well , do you like it ? '
And I was like ' I love it ! '
And he said ` Well , then who cares ?
Do it anyway ! '
`` That 's sort of a testament to how the entire writing and recording process went , if we liked something and we believed in it , we did it , '' she continued .
`` We did n't back down from it just because it was different or something we had n't tried before . ''
