`` Neon Knights '' is a song with lyrics by Ronnie James Dio and music by Dio , Tony Iommi , Bill Ward and Geezer Butler .
It is the first track from their landmark Heaven and Hell album .
Although Butler is credited on the album with co-writing all the songs , this is the only one with definite input by him .
Butler shared in the book Precious Metal : Decibel Presents the Stories Behind 25 Extreme Metal Masterpieces : `` About three or four songs into it -LSB- the album -RSB- , I had some traumatic personal problems back in England and , on top of the change with Ozzy -LSB- leaving -RSB- , I had to get out of there to clear my mind .
So I went back to England for a few months . ''
This song is the first track on the album and is in a pressure point : for many fans it was the very first taste of Black Sabbath without former lead singer Ozzy Osbourne .
Compare it to `` Hell 's Bells , '' the first song on Back in Black , which introduced an AC/DC without Bon Scott .
Ronnie James Dio had a lot to prove , and the whole band comes through strong .
Black Sabbath guitarist Tony Iommi wrote in his book Iron Man : My Journey through Heaven and Hell with Black Sabbath : `` We felt that we needed a fast number like this to balance out the slower songs on the album .
I find that writing fast songs is difficult .
I can write slow songs or mid-tempo ones until they 're coming out of my ears , but fast songs I really have to think a little more about .
I suppose that 's because of the way I 've always done stuff with Sabbath : most of the things were ploddy . ''
This song is about English legends of myth and medieval culture .
Although it 's the first song on the album , it is the last one to be written .
It is also the only song from Heaven and Hell to not be recorded in Miami , but in their California Bel Air estate .
In the book Precious Metal , Tony Iommi says of the circumstances of Ozzy 's departure : `` Ozzy was n't in a fine state of mind and , to be honest , we were n't too far behind him .
We were coming up with the music , but Ozzy just could n't put his head around getting into doing anything on it .
So basically it came to the crunch where we decided that we either had to break up or replace Ozzy . ''
