`` Fairytale '' was the Norwegian entry for the 2009 Eurovision Song Contest , and the eventual winner .
Performed by vocalist and violinist Alexander Rybak , the song smashed the record at the Moscow based event in the competition 's fifty-four year history with a massive 387 points.Rybak , who also wrote the song , was born in Minsk in what was then the Soviet Union .
While not the most powerful of ballads , it was a worthy winner , especially as he wrote it in English , which although the lingua franca of the known Universe , is not his first language .
As he was only twenty-three years old at the time of his victory , one has to take issue with the opening line `` Years ago when I was younger '' , unless he was referring to a kindergarten romance as in the Al Stewart song `` A Long Way Down From Stephanie '' .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB- Rybak was born in Belarus .
He said his background helped him to win the competition as whilst the happiest people in the world live in Norway , Belarus is known for the melancholy of its people .
The song features east European-styled folk rhythms .
After his Eurovision victory , Bjoern Risvik , the technical director at Oslo city hall , told reporters that the bells of the city hall will play the song once a day throughout the summer .
Rybek is a highly trained classical musician and he performed the song at the contest while playing the violin .
Rybak composed this up-tempo number about a lost love .
It was inspired by his memories of a former girlfriend , Ingrid Berg Mehus , whom he got to know through the Barratt Due Institute of Music in Oslo .
Said Rybak : `` I was traveling through Norway in the mountains on the west coast .
Every day , I walked for several hours , thought a lot and observed the life around me .
When I was on the highest mountain , I took out my violin and started playing the melody .
For several days I was thinking about this song , and then I started writing the words for it .
I told the story of a girl with whom I was in love , and so ` Fairytale ' emerged .
The fairytale world is very close to my heart .
I love Disney stories - my favorites are Beauty and the Beast , Pinocchio and The Lion King .
Everything is always very simple in these cartoons - very simple words and simple melodies . ''
-LRB- thanks , DeeTheWriter - Saint Petersburg , Russia Federation -RRB- This became the first foreign winner of the Eurovision Song Contest to reach the UK Top 10 since 1987 when Irishman Johnny Logan took `` Hold Me Now '' to # 2 .
In the press conference afterwards , Rybak said he won as he was one of the best singers and he had a story to tell .
