This Natalie Hemby and Delta Maid penned song is the title track of American Country music group Little Big Town 's fifth album .
Karen Fairchild explained to The Boot why they named the record after this cut .
`` It came about as a title because , of course , it 's a song on the record , '' she explained .
`` But the process also kind of felt like a storm .
Fast and furious and overwhelming and quickly gone .
It feels like there 's a really good storm brewing in our camp .
Something that comes through every once in a while and it 's really good , but it 's powerful and just a change in the air twirling around .
It 's a tornado in a good way . ''
At the studio where this was recorded , there 's a little hole in the wall that you go through to get to the echo chamber , where there are microphones set up .
Kimberly Schlapman and Jimi Westbrook used the space to create the spooky whistles for this song .
Karen Fairchild told The Boot that she 'd observed how the band 's young female fans have latched onto this song in a big way .
`` They like identifying with that song when they 're ticked off , '' she noted .
`` They want to throw their man under a house !
I see the girls tweet things like , ` I 'm a tornado ! '
Or ... ` I 'm gon na lift this house , ' and you just know there 's something not good going on in their house that day , and they need a theme song and something they can identify with and live vicariously through what we 're singing .
That 's what it 's all about , how you 're feeling and looking for a moment to identify with in a song .
And it 's fun ... we do n't take it too seriously .
But we all feel like a tornado sometimes . ''
The song compares a scorned woman to a force of nature , and features an ominous chorus in which the protagonist threatens to destroy the house that she shares with her wayward man .
`` Natalie played it for us one night and we were like , man , I do n't think I 've ever heard a chick say , ` I 'm a tornado , ' '' said Fairchild .
The eerie music video features actor Johnathon Schaech , playing the bad guy .
His other roles include playing the lead singer of The Wonders in That Thing You Do !
and a villain in Prom Night .
Schaech has another pop culture claim to fame - he married `` Why Ya Wan na '' singer Jana Kramer in July 2010 but they split after a month .
Little Big Town 's Karen Fairchild said in a radio interview that when performing the song , she likes to think of someone who 's been wronged .
`` I use a different motivation every night .
It 's not Jimi .
Everyone thinks it might be -LSB- husband -RSB- Jimi -LSB- Westbrook -RSB- , but it can be anything , '' she said .
`` I just like to get up there and think about somebody who does n't want to take anyone 's BS anymore , you know , whatever girl is out there . ''
