Ladyhawke is New Zealand native Pip Browne .
The singer-songwriter told Click Music that her Ladyhawke moniker is a tribute to the 1980s movie of the same name .
She explained : `` You ca n't go wrong with that film , it 's amazing !
It 's so bad it 's good .
I love that film .
You ca n't go wrong with Michelle Pfeiffer in the 80s ! ''
This was Ladyhawke 's first UK Top 40 hit .
Ladyhawke explained the background to this song on her website : '' I wrote the song a year and a half ago after days of no sleep due to terrible jetlag .
I felt like I was going out of my mind .
I was missing my friends and family back home , and I was basically living to hear my phone ring in hope that it would be one of them calling .
So my delirium came out of me thinking I was going crazy from lack of sleep ! ''
The song 's music video features paintings and illustrations by Sarah Larnach , who is responsible for Ladyhawke 's entire visual portfolio .
It was directed by Benji Davies and Jim Field who are otherwise known as Frater .
Ladyhawke explained the promo on her website : `` I always knew this song had the potential for a really imaginative video , considering the general theme of the song is me going crazy .
So when I read the treatment sent in by the Frater guys , a duo of London based directors who specialize in animation , I knew it was the one!Basically it had been written around the idea that my best friend Sarah Larnach , who does all my artwork , was to illustrate the video , along with the Frater guys .
So she came over all the way from Sydney to crash on my couch for a month and spend every day painting pictures for the video!Benji Davies and Jim Field were really lovely guys and very easy to work with .
The idea of the video is that I 'm hauled up in a hotel room , on the roadside in the middle of the Arizona desert .
There are two paintings on the wall above the bed , and as my head starts to get foggier , the pictures start to come to life , and I end up inside the paintings , driving in a muscle car down the desert , my suitcase in the back , going somewhere which ends up being outer-space ... after flying over the edge of a cliff .
Everyday kinda stuff ya know ?
It 's filled with beautiful water colour back-grounds , and washed out psychedelic painted space scenes .
We shot a day of live action , which roughly went from 8am till about 9 or 10pm .
It was all the scenes of me in the hotel room , and me driving the car .
The hotel set was built in a studio , and huge attention to detail was paid to make it look as close to American road-side motel as possible .
Old clocks , dressers , lamps , light fittings etc. .
It was a lot of fun to shoot , and the least stressful and turned out to be my favorite video so far . ''
