This is the title track of Country music artist Carrie Underwood 's third studio album .
The American Idol champ wrote this together with Natalie Hemby , and her frequent collaborator , Luke Laird .
CMT News asked Underwood when she heard the song played back the first time , what was going through her mind ?
She replied : `` I thought it would be a great album title .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- I do n't know what people would think about it , and it may never be a single or anything , but it was definitely a message that was poignant .
Yeah , it 's just fun to sing . ''
Underwood told AOL 's The Boot that she hopes this anthem about perseverance in the face of adversity will encourage people who are going through a hard time .
`` Whenever stuff goes wrong , you 've just got to get up in the morning and you 've got to play on , finish your song , finish what you started , even when things do n't look good , '' said Underwood .
`` I 've been really lucky in my life to where things really have n't gone wrong that often , but we all have our days ... It makes me feel really great when somebody who has been there comes up to me and says , ' I love this song , ' which has already happened and I 'm so excited to hear more stories like that .
It 's a really cool inspirational song . ''
CMT news asked Underwood why the lines , `` Cause you 're going to make mistakes/It 's always worth the sacrifice/Even when you 're wrong/Play on , '' are so important to the message of this song ?
She replied : `` If something seems bad , instead of hiding under the covers and not facing things , we can make things worse than they already are .
You have to keep going .
You have to keep playing the game .
You have to keep doing what you do .
And , yeah , it is worth the sacrifice even if you have all these doubts in your head .
You just got ta keep playing . ''
Underwood added : `` Do n't do things you think are wrong !
-LRB- laughs -RRB- I do n't want people to lose all their money , like gamble it away or something .
It 's just all about keeping going .
Keep playing your song , keep doing your life things when stuff is bad .
When it rains on you , just keep going , even if you think you should n't .
`` CMT News went on to ask if the song 's message was something she needed to remind herself the day she wrote that ?
Underwood replied : `` Yeah , it 's a very therapeutic song to sing .
And I feel like it would be a song that people could listen to and feel inspired to be a little happier about life . ''
In recording Play On , Underwood again re-united with producer Mark Bright , who produced Carnival Ride and seven tracks on Some Hearts .
`` Over the summer , we spent more time with arrangements , and Carrie experimented more than ever with vocal textures , '' Bright told Reuters .
`` What came out on the other side is extraordinary .
I think we got it right .
`` Underwood said she trusts Bright , and that makes recording a more comfortable process .
`` I 've known him now for five years , '' she told Reuters .
`` I 've worked with him on every album , and I trust him and he trusts me .
I 'm comfortable with him now - whereas in the beginning it was like , ` Oh , my gosh .
This guy is a big-time producer .
What if I do bad ? '
I was really afraid to mess up .
Now I 'm not afraid to screw up .
I can screw up royally when I 'm in the studio and it 's OK .
I trust him . ''
Luke Laird told The Boot that this song was written almost as an afterthought at the end of a writing session .
He explained : `` Natalie Hemby and I got together with Carrie sometime between January and March last year , to write for her new album .
Carrie had pretty much blocked out three months to write for this album , and she probably wrote over 60 songs during that period.This was the first time Natalie and Carrie had met , and ` Play On ' was actually the second song we wrote that day .
When we finished writing the first song , Carrie went downstairs to get a drink and I told Natalie , ` I 'll bet she 's going to want to write another song . '
Because when Carrie comes in to write , she 's ready to work all day.We did n't have any ideas , but when Carrie went downstairs , I started playing a drum loop I had on my laptop , and I had my electric guitar there that day .
So I started playing these chords , kind of fun stuff , and Carrie came back in and was listening to me ... and then she just started singing , ` Play on ... ' And I thought , wow , that 's kind of cool and motivational ... but just a little bit different way of saying it .
So we actually started on the chorus of this song .
And from there , it was just like a stream of consciousness .
Once we got the concept -- play on , keep on when you 're up against adversity -- then we had fun trying to think of all these cool , different images .
Once Carrie started singing , ` Play on ... ' it just sounded so cool .
Of course , anything that Carrie sings sounds good -- she could sing the phone book !
But I thought this song had a good message and there was some cool different images .
And it was really smooth .
Nobody was like , `` Oh , no !
Let 's do it this way ! ''
It just flowed really smooth , and all of us started throwing all these lines in , and it really came together like a gift.For a long time after we wrote it , it did n't sound like this song was even in the running , though .
From what I heard , it was one of the last songs Carrie brought up to put on the album .
She said she 'd listened to it again , and thought it might be cool .
And next thing I know , I get a call .
I was out working in L.A. , and they tell me , `` Carrie 's cutting ` Play On ! ' ''
And I was shocked .
I called Natalie , and she just started crying .
And I was so happy , too , because it was the first song that Natalie and I had written together .
We had been friends for so long , and we write tons of songs together .
And then a few weeks later , we found out it was going to be the title of her album , which made it extra cool , because it was the first song I 'd ever written that 's been the title track of an album ! ''
