Well , it 's the years that are going by for The Offspring .
More than a quarter-century since they formed , the American Punk Rock band released their ninth studio album , Days Go By .
This uptempo tune is the first single and the title track from the set and it finds Dexter Holland reflecting , `` All your anger , all your hurt .
It does n't matter in the end . ''
The song premiered on KROQ on April 27 , 2012 .
Speaking with Rolling Stone , Holland said that the Offspring are trying to impart a message through the Days Go By album .
`` Part of why I chose ` Days Go By ' as the single and the title of the album is because it really kind of shows -- not only with me -- that the world has been through a sh -- ty few years and it 's been really tough on a lot of people , '' he explained .
`` People have really gotten hurt and , at the end of the day , no one 's gon na pick you up.You 've got ta pick yourself up and figure out how to move on , '' he continued .
`` So I guess acknowledging that it 's been tough , but also having a message of hope , is what I really wanted people to take away from this record . ''
There are different renderings that can be found on the net before the band completed the track .
`` There are versions on YouTube where the guitar riff is different , the verse is different , the chorus is different-so it 's a totally different song now , really , '' Holland told Billboard , adding , `` It was kind of toward the end -LSB- of recording -RSB- when people started listening to it .
My friends , my manager started pointing at it , saying , ` That 's the one you 've got to go with . ' ''
Days Go By is the Offspring 's first album to feature drummer Pete Parada , who replaced Atom Willard in July 2007 .
Although Williard was still a member of the band during the recording of their previous record , Rise and Fall , Rage and Grace , session musician Josh Freese actually handled the drum tracks .
Initially there were doubts this would even make it onto the album , let alone become the title track and first single .
`` That song literally went up and down in relation to how it was doing next to the other songs as the record went forward , '' said Holland to Billboard magazine : `` It was probably the first song we started working on and just about the last song that we finished .
We really kept coming back to it over the course of the record . ''
Holland discussed the song 's meaning with Spinner : `` Time marches on , '' he said .
`` We have to get through life and pull ourselves up by our boot straps .
No one is going to do it for you .
At the same time , there 's a message of hope , and I wanted that to come across .
The last few years have been really tough on a lot of people .
You can see it on TV or in the newspaper .
The song does n't simply say , `` Let 's revolt . ''
It 's about the spirit that things can get better . ''
