This song by the French electropop DJ and producer Martin Solveig became his biggest hit to date in the UK when it entered the Top 20 , beating the # 22 peak of his 2005 single `` Everybody . ''
It also topped the charts in several European countries including Belgium and the Netherlands .
When South Africa 's landline operator Telkom launched its Mobile arm 8ta -LRB- Heita -RRB- in 2010 , it used this tune as its theme song for its adverts .
The song was used in an American advertising campaign by Trident to promote its new Vitality line of chewing gum .
The song was used in promo spots for the Zooey Deschanel starring sitcom New Girl .
Martin Solveig 's birth name is Martin Picandet .
He chose his pseudonym as an homage to the French actress Solveig Dommartin .
The song features Canadian electropop group Dragonette .
Their singer , Martina Sorbara , also provided the vocals for Kaskade 's dance hit , `` Fire In Your Shoes . ''
The music video for the song was recorded at the Stade Roland Garros in Paris and finds Martin Solveig facing another French DJ , Bob Sinclar , in a tennis match .
Tennis stars Novak Djokovic and Gaël Monfils both make cameo appearances in the clip .
The video features tennis player Solveig smitten with a girl who 's unavailable .
`` The story in the song focuses on the character of the girl , '' he told Billboard magazine , `` who just came to say ` hello ' and nothing else . ''
Unusually , Solveig recorded the song after he shot the video .
He explained why to Artist Direct : `` I was working on a short movie as a director -- that is my other passion .
I direct videos .
It was not meant to become a music video .
The film was a story where you mix reality and fiction , which I like about making film .
The inspiration for the song came from the shooting of this video .
It was a bit of a premiere .
It was shot for broadcast TV and we agreed with the directors of the tournament -LSB- The French Tennis Open , with 12,000 spectators on hand -RSB- to let us play a fake game for 15 minutes , so everyone was caught off guard , including the audience , and that inspired the song . ''
