Lily Allen told the Observer Music Monthly December 2008 that this sarcastic indictment of celebrity culture was inspired by `` one of those days when you just shout at the telly , ` This is wrong ! ' ''
She added that her fear is `` of the world becoming this horrible sterile place .
Being scared that there 's never going to be anything real any more that is n't sponsored . ''
This song , like all the other tracks on It 's Not Me , It 's You , was co-written and produced by Greg Kurstin , who produced three songs on her 2007 debut Alright , Still -LRB- `` Everything 's Just Wonderful '' , `` Not Big '' and `` Alfie '' -RRB- .
Kurstin has also produced for the likes of Kylie Minogue , Donna Summer and Natasha Bedingfield .
Allen explained to The Sun January 30 , 2009 why she decided to just work with Kurstin this time : `` Last time I was desperately trying to get a record deal and was writing singles and working with different people .
For this album I had a lot more artistic freedom to just relax .
Even though people say the second album is the one with the most pressure , I did n't feel it .
Last time I was just after a deal whereas this time I had one .
Greg is a genius musician and I found it easy to write my lyrics over the top .
I am glad that I have found a person who understands me musically - where I am coming from .
Neither of us take it too seriously , we just have fun .
And I get quite scared of working with people I have never worked with before . ''
Allen and her co-writer Greg Kurstin won a couple of Ivor Novello Awards for this hit single-Best Song Musically and Lyrically and Most Performed Work .
`` This song is so much about feeling so lost , '' said Allen .
`` It has made me feel quite found all of a sudden . ''
The pair additionally won the Songwriters of the Year award at the 2010 ceremony .
Allen told MTV News that when it came to shoot the song 's music video at an English country estate called Wrest Park , she had just one thing on her mind .
She said laughing : `` I wanted to do a dance routine , even though I 'm not really doing a dance routine .
Other people are doing it , but I 'm part of it .
I think people are quite used to girls in this industry really being able to move in front of the camera , but I 'm just rubbish at that kind of thing .
`` Allen added : `` I find it quite nerve-racking performing , actually .
Because when you write songs , you do n't really think about performing in a video .
I think it 's quite fun .
Lots of color and dancing , and it 's about doing something that 's in keeping with the song , actually . ''
This song won the Best Track of the Year at the Virgin Media Music Awards 2010 , in which three million music fans voted .
