Nicks wrote this song about the death of her uncle and the death of John Lennon .
The line about the `` Words from a poet and a voice from a choir '' refers to Lennon.Speaking about the song in commentary for her Live In Concert video , she explained : `` I was in Australia when John Lennon was shot .
Everybody was devastated .
I did n't know John Lennon , but I knew Jimmy Iovine , who worked with John quite a bit in the '70s , and heard all the loving stories that Jimmy told about him .
When I came back to Phoenix I started to write this song.Right when I got to Phoenix , my uncle Bill got cancer , got very sick very fast , and died in a couple of weeks .
My cousin John Nicks and I were in the room when he died .
There was just John and I there .
That was part of the song when I went running down the hallways looking for somebody - I thought where 's my mom ?
Where 's his wife and the rest of the family ?
At that point I went back to the piano and finished the song . ''
Stevie came up with the title when she was recording `` Stop Draggin ' My Heart Around '' with Tom Petty .
When she asked Tom Petty 's wife Jane when they met , Jane said , `` At the age of seventeen , '' but she had a very strong southern accent and Stevie thought she said `` the edge of seventeen , '' which makes a great song title .
Telling the story in a 1981 interview with Los Angeles disc jockey Robert W. Morgan , Nicks said she told Jane : `` It 's got to be ` edge . '
` The Edge of Seventeen ' is perfect .
I 'm going to write a song . ''
When Nicks played this as the last song at the last stop on her Bella Donna tour at the Wilshire Ebell Theatre in Los Angeles , California , she walked across that stage and collected various gifts audience members brought for her as she finished the song .
This became a tradition , with Nicks ending up with a mountain of flowers and stuffed animals at the end of her solo shows which she always donates to local children 's hospitals .
Performing with Fleetwood Mac , she ca n't do this as there are five stars in the band .
Destiny 's Child sampled the famous guitar riff on this track for their song `` Bootylicious . ''
Some of Stevie 's fans were horrified , but she loved it , and even appeared in the video .
Stevie met the group when she was on the The Rosie O'Donnell Show promoting her Trouble In Shangri-La album , and Destiny 's Child was in the same building rehearsing for Saturday Night Live .
Speaking further in her video commentary , Nicks spoke about the `` white-winged dove '' and what this song means to her : `` It became a song about violent death , which was very scary to me because at that point no one in my family had died .
To me , the white-winged dove was for John Lennon the dove of peace , and for my uncle it was the white-winged dove who lives in the saguaro cactus - that 's how I found out about the white-winged dove , and it does make a sound like whooo , whooo , whooo .
I read that somewhere in Phoenix and thought I would use that in this song .
The dove became exciting and sad and tragic and incredibly dramatic .
Every time I sing this song I have that ability to go back to that two month period where it all came down .
I 've never changed it , and I ca n't imagine ending my show with any other song .
It 's such a strong , private moment that I share in this song . ''
Bella Donna was Stevie 's first solo album .
This was the third single ; the first 2 were duets : `` Stop Draggin ' My Heart Around '' with Tom Petty and `` Leather And Lace '' with Don Henley .
The album proved that Nicks had enormous appeal outside of Fleetwood Mac .
This song is featured in the video game Grand Theft Auto IV , developed by Rockstar Games and distributed by Take-Two Interactive for multiple video game consoles .
The game features fictional in-game radio stations that can be heard when the player gets in a car ; this song is featured on the `` Liberty Rock Radio 97.8 '' station along with other rock songs such as `` 1979 '' by the Smashing Pumpkins and `` The Seeker '' by The Who .
-LRB- thanks , Rob - Saratoga Springs , NY -RRB-
