The song 's cryptic lyrics which many have tried to interpret are , according to the band , meant to be surreal and meaningless , built around the title .
A common speculation is that they are lyrics of an environmentalist stance .
Legend has it that the title was changed from `` Junkie Gone To Heaven '' at the insistence of the record company .
-LRB- thanks , Brian - West Milford , NJ -RRB- Regarding the number part of the song , Frank Black said in an interview with The Alternative Press : `` It 's a reference from what I understand to be Hebrew numerology , and I do n't know a lot about it or any of it really .
I just remember someone telling me of the supposed fact that in the Hebrew language , especially in the Bible , you can find lots of references to man in the 5th and Satan in the 6th and God in the 7th .
I did n't go to the library and figure it out .
`` So how accurate was Black ?
The 6 and 7 parts are on target ; the devil is 6 because 666 is the number of the Beast , and God is 7 because that 's the heavenly number -LRB- there are many 7s in the Revelation : world created in seven days , etc. -RRB- .
5 for man is a bit of a stretch .
Traditionally Greek and Hebrew numbers all applied to a letter -LRB- Alpha = 1 , Beta = 2 etc -RRB- .
Most of the Old Testament was written in Hebrew and the New Testament in Greek .
And in the Bible numbers have a meaning for instance 5 = grace , 6 = spiritual imperfection , 7 = spiritual perfection and 8 = resurrection .
An example is in Greek , the name of Jesus is spelled I H S O U S -LRB- iota , eta , sigma , omicron , upsilon , sigma -RRB- .
Substituting in the Greek numeral system the equivalent numerical values to each letter in the name of Jesus and adding them up , the total is 888 .
Also there are 8 examples of resurrection in the Bible .
This song addresses three major environmental problems : Pollution -LRB- `` sludge from New York and New Jersey -RRB- , ozone depletion -LRB- `` hole in the sky '' -RRB- and the greenhouse effect -LRB- `` and if the ground is not cold , everything is gon na burn '' -RRB- .
Also , they contrast creation -LRB- gods -RRB- with manmade destruction -LRB- monkey -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , miguel - Coimbra , Portugal -RRB- The first single from Doolittle , this song received lots of accolades from the mainstream press , including from Rolling Stone magazine who named it the # 5 single of 1989 and later listed it as # 410 on their list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
The Doolittle album made many `` best of '' lists , but the Pixies went on hiatus after touring to promote the album , and never achieved great commercial success .
This is the only Pixies song to use a string section and the first to use outside musicians : 2 cellists and 2 violinists .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Frank Black is the son of Pentecostal parents .
In this song he combines environmentalism with religion and numerology .
`` I 've retained a lot of Bible stories , and I use them a lot , '' Black told the Washington Post .
`` Lots of stories of sex and seduction and murder and false religions . ''
