This was originally recorded by Bing Crosby in 1943 , and it quickly became one of America 's most popular holiday songs along with `` White Christmas , '' which Bing had put onto disc the previous year .
The song particularly struck a nerve with overseas GIs and their families awaiting their return from serving their country in World War 2 .
The GI magazine said Crosby accomplished more for military morale than anyone else of that era .
There have been 2 made-for-TV movies and a 1998 film all titled I 'll Be Home For Christmas , which have all featured this tune on their soundtracks .
Josh Groban 's version of this song topped the American adult Contemporary Chart in December 2007 .
Noel also broke the record on January 5 , 2008 for the most songs -LRB- 5 -RRB- from one album on the Top 30 of the Adult Contemporary chart , more than any other artist has ever had in the same week .
The song reached the Hot 100 for the second time in 2011 when Kelly Clarkson 's version debuted at # 93 .
This was written by Walter Kent -LRB- music -RRB- and James Kimball `` Kim '' Gannon -LRB- words -RRB- .
Though Kent and Gannon collaborated on other songs , none reached the same level of popularity as `` I 'll Be Home for Christmas . ''
Kent had had previous success with the hit song '' -LRB- There 'll Be Blue Birds Over -RRB- The White Cliffs of Dover , '' with the lyricist Nat Burton in 1941 .
In 2007 Noel became the first Christmas album to top the Billboard album chart in 13 years .
The previous holiday recording to head the list was Kenny G 's best-selling Miracles - The Holiday Album , which reached the summit in December 1994 .
Groban 's album benefited from his appearance on Oprah Winfrey 's `` My Favorite Things '' edition of her show .
Noel was the top-selling album of the 2007 calendar year and the year 's top-selling new release .
Though Daughtry was crowned as the # 1 Billboard 200 album of the year , the figures for publication reasons are based on November to November and the majority of Noel 's sales were made in December 2007 .
In addition , when Noel became # 1 on The Billboard 200 for the fifth week in a row , it became the longest-running # 1 Christmas album of all time .
The previous record holder had been Elvis Presley , who spent 4 weeks at the summit with his 1957 LP , Elvis ' Christmas Album .
Josh Groban 's single version , which peaked at # 95 on the Hot 100 version , was a live recording for WLTW -LRB- 106.7 Lite FM -RRB- New York listeners .
It was different to the album cut , which was taped in the studio .
Lady Antebellum covered the song for their 2012 festive album , On This Winter 's Night .
`` As you get a little older and everybody has their jobs and then families and kids , it definitely becomes harder to get everybody together at once , '' Lady A 's Charles Kelley noted .
`` It would be pretty special to have the whole family in the room and get back to where we were as kids ... all waking up on Christmas morning , walking down and having that tradition . ''
