This is Dropkick Murphys ' take on a Folk song written by Woody Guthrie .
Guthrie was a very prolific writer , and many of his songs were never recorded .
The Woody Guthrie archives has lyrics to thousands of his songs that are sometimes dusted off and recorded by modern artists .
To learn more about Guthrie , check out our interview with Anna Canoni , who is Guthrie 's granddaughter .
This was a breakthrough song for the Dropkick Murphys .
Matt Kelly told us : `` That song was instrumental in making us very popular in our own backyards .
We 've been touring since ' 96 , and we 've done Warped Tour shows around the country , playing festivals over in Europe and some big shows all around the world .
But in Boston , they 're like ` Dropkick what ? '
Like ` What the hell 's that ? '
And I think being involved in The Departed definitely helped put us on the map and , for better or for worse , legitimized our band in Boston . ''
Dropkick Murphys are from Boston and their music is often associated with Boston sports teams .
This has been played when Boston Red Sox closer , Jonathan Papelbon entered a game in the 9th inning , to signal a power play for the Boston Bruins , as well as a 2009 Visa commercial featuring the New England Patriots .
The Boston Celtics used it heavily in their 2008 playoff run and both the studio version and a marching band version are heavily used by Boston College football .
It has since spread from Boston sports to other sports teams .
-LRB- thanks , Bert - Pueblo , NM -RRB- The song has sold over a million digital copies despite never having charted on the Hot 100 .
In our interview with Matt Kelly of the Dropkick Murphys , he explained how they attained the unpublished Woody Guthrie lyrics for this song .
Said Kelly : `` We were bestowed the honor by his daughter of being able to go through his lyrical archives and pick out a song or two of unpublished lyrics that we thought would be kind of cool .
I mean , we had no business even being able to look at those lyrics - there have been some big names that have been after those lyrics for decades .
I know Springsteen 's been after 'em , and then Elvis Costello.It 's just so amazing that we were approached to look at them , never mind have the approval of the estate to use them .
And the reason why we used that was because it said ` Boston ' in it .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- There 's not a hell of a lot to the lyrics of that song , it 's four lines of the verse , and then ` shipping up to Boston . '
So it was pretty bare bones .
And we 'd had an instrumental that we started working on in Madrid , Spain in I think 2002 .
We recorded an older version of it , we just kind of did a demo of it , and it ended up on a Warped Tour sampler or something like that .
And it sounds like a high school band , it 's not very good .
So we 've been playing it live here and there , and so , like , what the heck , let 's re-record this .
The song grew a bit after recording it .
And not many people knew it or had the recorded version , so I 'm thinking what the heck , let 's give it the real treatment and spend some time on it .
This appeared on the soundtrack to the Academy Award-winning film , The Departed , and the music video features clips of the movie .
So how did the song end up in the movie ?
Kelly says , `` There 's a couple of different legends as to how Martin Scorsese got his hands on the song .
Some stories say Robbie Robertson from The Band let him know about us , or then there was Leonardo DiCaprio , some say that he told them , ` Hey , you should use this song . '
The song was already released on the Warrior 's Code album .
So unfortunately for us , it was n't specifically written for the movie . ''
On their 2010 Live on Lansdowne DVD , the Dropkick Murphys included a performance of this song with The Mighty Mighty Bosstones .
Matt Kelly explains : `` Those guys really gave us our first foothold as far as touring around the US and Europe .
We did n't even have a full-length album out and they insisted on taking us on the road at the height of their popularity .
Took us on a two-month US tour and a one-month European tour .
They were n't as big as they were becoming in Europe yet , but it was still the biggest tour that we 'd ever been on .
We 'd been in a band playing to like a bar full of people .
So playing these big venues , big clubs , and then sometimes colleges and universities and stuff , was ridiculous for us .
And it was great having them up on stage with us playing the trombone and saxes .
They 're big personalities , they 're maniacs .
So it was cool , it was kind of like things that come full circle or something , so that particular live version of ` I 'm Shipping Up To Boston ' really warms the cockles . ''
An acoustic version serves as the theme song for the TNT television series Rizzoli & Isles .
