This Four Tops re-creation is the first single from British R&B singer Craig David 's fifth album , Signed Sealed Delivered .
The album primarily covers and samples Motown hits but with a modern twist .
David explained why he decided to record a covers album to Blues and Soul magazine : `` I 've seen with my own eyes how the music industry has changed so dramatically over the last 10 years .
In that , while it used to be all about trying to find that first hit single and then building up anticipation by coming with a second single before releasing your album , to me it feels the whole way in which listeners receive music nowadays is very different .
To where today you 're almost in a place where you can just be constantly putting singles out .
Because people now - through I-Tunes and other media platforms - tend to put their own compilations together .
So I felt , instead of coming off the back of a ` Greatest Hits ' record with a new album full of original compositions , I 'd go with a project that had me singing classic songs I 'd always loved .
You know , at a time when you can pick and choose the songs you like , I thought ` Why not hedge my bets by letting people hear songs they already know , but with me giving them a slightly different interpretation and twist ? ' ''
The chorus of this track samples The Four Tops ' 1967 hit `` Standing In The Shadows Of Love . ''
David told Blues and Soul magazine about his version : '' ` Standing In The Shadows ... ' was a song I loved from back in the day .
But I 'd always felt the verses could have been , not necessarily stronger , but - in terms of my own interpretation - could have been driven in a slightly different way .
So that was why that song in particular was one that I did n't actually do as a straight cover for this new album .
I basically wrote the melody and lyrics of the verses from scratch , while maintaining the hook of the original chorus , which was always very strong .
Then sonically I decided to make it slightly more contemporary , with the production being a bit more four-to-the-floor and more in-tune to what 's going on today .
Because , with it now leading into summer , a lot of the dance/house-driven tracks seem to be very popular at this time of year . ''
