Smith explained to Billboard magazine that this dark improvised meditation on art and nature is about Christopher Columbus , `` having a dream of the environmental apocalypse of the 21st century . ''
The song was inspired by a pilgrimage Smith made in 2008 to explore the life of Saint Francis .
Smith , who was raised a Jehovah 's Witness but left them once she became a teenager , hired a local Italian band , Casa del Vento , to play on this track .
The New Yorker explained during the album 's playback that after her guitarist Lenny Kaye laid down his improvised backing track she , `` studied , thought and then improvised a vocal ... It 's about the environment , materialism .
I thought about St. Francis of Assisi , who was such a beautiful person . ''
The song title refers to a dream of the Roman Emperor Constantine , which was instrumental in his conversion to Christianity .
Having become ruler of Britain and Gaul on his father 's death , in 306AD , Constantine found himself six years later battling with Maxentius over control of the entire Roman Western Empire .
Constantine decided to settle the matter by force and on the night before the Battle of Milvian , as he was about to cross the Alps , he dreamt of a cross of light superimposed on the sun .
On it were the words `` In this sign you shall conquer . ''
The emperor related this to the Christian God and ordered his men to go into battle with the sign of the cross painted on their shields and standards .
The battle was won , Constantine 's conversion was sealed and he gained control of the Western Roman Empire .
Speaking with Spin magazine about this impressionistic improvised track , Smith said it contains , `` many questions . ''
She explained : `` It questions the role of artists in our society .
The questions are there , and they 're not answerable questions .
They 're more things that we contemplate and ruminate constantly .
As an artist , one thinks , `` What is the purpose of art ?
Can we make a difference ?
Is art just more pollution in an already polluted world ? ''
There are a million questions one asks oneself . ''
The 10-minute meditation references early renaissance artist Piero della Francesca , who died on October 12 , 1492 , the day on which Columbus discovered the New World .
