After taking a five year hiatus from touring to focus on raising her family , Contemporary Christian singer-songwriter Plumb returned to release her sixth studio album Need You Now .
The disc was originally titled ` Faster Than a Bullet ' but the singer renamed it in honor of the victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting .
This is the second single from the set .
Plumb penned the song with Luke Sheets and Christa Wells .
She told NewReleaseTuesday : `` I 've known and loved Christa as a friend for close to 20 years .
She is amazing .
She has a God-given gift and people should check out anything she 's part of , not just with Plumb . ''
The song was also inspired by difficulties between Plumb and her husband Jeremy Lee , who is the founder of FlatRock Management : `` The bottom fell out of my personal life , '' Plumb explained to Billboard magazine .
`` My husband and I were on the verge of divorce .
It was the darkest , most rock-bottom place I 've ever been .
But , God never left and did n't let me down for one second .
` Need You Now ' was birthed out of how God does n't grow tired of our need for Him .
As He began to put the pieces of my marriage back together , we really made something beautiful out of the ash . ''
Plumb and Jeremy are now reconciled .
`` It 's so much better than it 's ever been , '' said Plumb .
`` He 's in the business of second chances . ''
The song finds Plumb recalling God 's help during times when life has got on top of her . ''
` Need You Now ' was born out of anxiety and panic attacks I had as a teenager , '' she explained .
`` I 've learned over the years that no matter how many times I 've cried out to God , for whatever reason , He never grows tired .
He never leaves us alone or gives us more than we can carry because he loves us .
No matter what we 've done .
I ' m so thankful this song that has helped me , can give hope to others as well . ''
The song was inspired initially about an emotional ordeal Plumb had in high school .
She explained to New Release Tuesday : `` I was taken back to a place where I struggled with anxiety , and I still have that struggle .
In high school , it manifested itself through panic attacks .
They were terribly painful stomach cramps that were embarrassing and debilitating , and I would find myself hiding in the restroom quoting Isaiah 41:10 over and over to myself.God 's promise that He is with me , and He wo n't give me more than I can handle , and I would wonder why my anxiety was so overwhelming .
Not just shortness of breath and a sweaty brow , but severe stomach cramps .
I would feel like I was dying , and I would actually say to God , `` Just take me . ''
It was so unpredictable , I could be in the middle of taking a test , on a date , at camp , out with girlfriends .
Because of that , I was even more anxious .
It became a real handicap for me .
I would cry out to God , ` Please , help me .
` Doctors could n't fix me , so prayer became my only safety net .
God was always there ; even in my difficulty I was still breathing in and out .
As that would continue , God started to replace my fears with hope .
It took years and years , and through medicine and more importantly more confidence in my Creator that would make me less and less anxious .
I developed more endurance to make it through the next panic attack .
That 's a big part of my story .
That 's one of my wounds . ''
