Like many Rock bands , Aerosmith 's songs were primarily written by their lead singer -LRB- Steven Tyler -RRB- and guitarist -LRB- Joe Perry -RRB- .
Bands who wrote their own songs were loath to bring in outside writers , as they usually felt they could compose just fine on their own .
Then Desmond Child worked with Kiss and came up with `` I Was Made For Loving You , '' which got him a shot with Bon Jovi , resulting in the massive hits `` You Give Love A Bad Name '' and `` Livin ' On A Prayer . ''
John Kalodner , who was an A&R executive at Aerosmith 's label , convinced them to write a song with Child , and this was the result.When we spoke with Desmond Child in 2012 , he told the story : `` They had never written with an outside writer , and they were not happy to see me .
They were going along with it to please John Kalodner , but they were not that happy about it.Steven -LRB- Tyler -RRB- was much more friendly , as he is , and was very generous , really , and showed me a song that they had started called ` Cruisin ' for the Ladies . '
I listened to that lyric , and I said , ` You know what , that 's a very boring title . '
And they looked at me like , ` How dare you ? '
And then Steven volunteered , sheepishly , and said that when he first wrote the melody he was singing ` Dude Looks like a Lady . '
It was kind of a tongue twister that sounded more like scatting .
He got the idea because they had gone to a bar and had seen a girl at the end of the bar with ginormous blonde rock hair , and the girl turned around and it ended up being Vince Neil from Motley Crue .
So then they started making fun of him and started saying , ` That dude looks like a lady , dude looks like a lady , dude looks like a lady . '
So that 's how that was born .
That 's the true story of how that was born .
So I grabbed onto that and I said , ` No , that 's the title of the song . ' ''
While Aerosmith is a very heterosexual band , they were secure enough to sing about wanting sex with the `` Dude '' even after they discover he is a man .
They were n't concerned about their masculinity , but were worried about offending the LGBT community - they did n't want to come off as jackass rock stars making fun someone different .
Desmond Child was the one who pushed it through .
He told us , `` Joe -LRB- Perry -RRB- stepped in and said , ' I do n't want to insult the gay community . '
I said , ` Okay , I 'm gay , and I 'm not insulted .
Let 's write this song . '
So I talked them into the whole scenario of a guy that walks into a strip joint and falls in love with the stripper on stage , goes backstage and finds out it 's a guy .
But besides that , he 's gon na go with it .
He says , ` My funky lady , I like it , like it , like it like that . '
And so he does n't run out of there , he stays.If you think about how far back that was , it was a very daring song to sing , and everyone went with it .
It 's not like the polarized society we have now , because that was before gay people really started fighting for their rights and nobody cared about it and everyone thought that they could make fun of us .
So they accepted the lyric , and not only that , went for it .
-LRB- Laughs -RRB- I do n't know if anyone has looked deep enough into the song , but it 's a very accepting song , and it has a moral that says never judge a book by its cover , or who you 're going to love by your lover . ''
The video was mostly a performance piece with random shots of girls and oddities mixed in .
The band got a lot of screen time , which was a good marketing move , since a lot of people had never seen them perform , which was their strong suit .
The Run-D.M.C. cover of `` Walk This Way '' was the first video Steven Tyler and Joe Perry appeared in on MTV , and this was the second .
It was a lot like the Van Halen 's video for `` Jump '' in that it showed off their eccentric lead singer 's stage moves while the other members looked like they were having a great time rocking out .
The shots of girls added lots of appeal to the target audience , and also advanced the storyline , making us wonder about their true gender .
Blurring the line of femininity was a theme of the clip , with Tyler at one point appearing with half his body dressed like a woman , the other half dressed like a man .
Also in the video -LRB- around the 1:45 mark -RRB- , we see a bride and groom from behind , and when the bride turns around , it 's the bearded John Kalodner , the man who put the collaboration together for this song .
This was used in the 1993 film Mrs. Doubtfire , in which Robin Williams plays a father who dresses up like an old English nanny in order to see his three children .
Desmond Child told us , `` It 's funny , because they used that song in Mrs. Doubtfire , and then it was like every four or five year old child in America was able to sing that song .
It was like ; do you realize this is about a tranny ? ''
The wives of both Steven Tyler and Joe Perry appeared in the video along with playboy playmate Brandi Brandt .
The video was directed by Marty Callner , whose other work included many of the videos for Laura Branigan , Twisted Sister , and Pat Benatar .
He had a good track record of getting his work on MTV , and the network loved `` Dude , '' giving it MTV Video Music Award nominations for Best Group Video and Best Stage Performance in a Video .
Aerosmith , whose 1982 video for `` Lightning Strikes '' and 1985 clip for `` Let The Music Do The Talking '' were ignored by the network , suddenly became video stars in the peak years of MTV 's video era .
Callner directed their next three videos , which were also MTV favorites : `` Angel , '' `` Rag Doll '' and `` Love In An Elevator . ''
This was Aerosmith 's comeback single .
Their last hit was a remake of `` Come Together '' in 1978 .
After years of drug addiction and poorly selling records , they emerged clean with Permanent Vacation and went on to enormous success in their second act.Aerosmith 's comeback started the year before , when Run DMC did a Hip-Hop cover of `` Walk This Way , '' which introduced the band to a new , younger audience and got them on MTV .
Poking fun at Vince Neil was the inspiration for this song , but Aerosmith lead singer Steven Tyler is a dude who has also looked like a lady .
Tyler has worn feminine clothes on stage since the '70s .
Many of the `` Hair Bands '' like Cinderella , Guns N ' Roses , and Skid Row that were popular when this song was released , wore clothes and makeup similar to what Tyler had been wearing for years .
According to Tyler , he first got the idea for a song about cross-dressing after hearing a comedian making fun of the actor / '80s icon Mr. T .
When we spoke with Desmond Child , he said that he told Vince Neil the story of the song , and that Vince got a kick out of it .
The Motley Crue frontman is fully aware that the song is about him .
This was the first of four hits from the Permanent Vacation album .
The others were `` Angel , '' `` Rag Doll , '' and `` Love In An Elevator . ''
Steven Tyler credits his newly acquired Korg DSS-1 sampling keyboard with helping him come up with this track .
After hearing a Joe Perry guitar lick , Tyler started messing around with the presets on the instrument , and when he activated the one for Clavinet , it gave him the sound that framed the chorus .
The basic track was written in an afternoon .
