This was influenced by Ray Charles , who like Joel was a singer , songwriter and piano player .
Joel did a duet with Charles in 1986 on his song `` Baby Grand . ''
When Joel appeared on The Howard Stern Show in 2010 , he said that he wrote the song on the day he moved back from California to New York .
He really was taking a Greyhound on the Hudson River line - he was on his way home to Highland Falls , New York when he started writing the song in a notebook .
As soon as he got home , he went to the piano and finished the words and lyrics in about an hour .
Joel played this at a celebration party for Hillary Clinton when she was elected Senator in New York State in 2001 .
During the campaign , her opponent , Rudy Giuliani , accused Clinton of supporting drug use when she played Joel 's `` Captain Jack '' at a fundraiser .
This is one of the most famous songs about New York City .
Some others are `` New York , New York '' by Frank Sinatra , `` On Broadway '' by The Drifters , and `` New York City Serenade '' by Bruce Springsteen .
Tony Bennett performed this with Joel at the 2002 Grammy awards .
They wore tuxedos and sang over a backdrop of the New York City skyline before the terrorist attacks .
Floyd Pepper of The Muppets house band The Electric Mayhem had one of his finest moments when he performed this song on a season 2 episode of The Muppet Show .
Joel grew up in Long Island , near New York City .
He had just returned to New York after living in Los Angeles for 4 years .
He wrote this about his love for New York , which he missed while he was away .
Another song on the album , `` Say Goodbye To Hollywood , '' also expresses Joel 's feelings about leaving California for New York , which he considers home .
This is included on Joel 's album Greatest Hits , Vol 1 and 2 .
It was also released as the B-side to the single `` Say Goodbye to Hollywood . ''
-LRB- thanks , Patrick - Tallapoosa , GA -RRB- Joel performed this at the 2001 `` Tribute To Heroes '' telethon to benefit victims of the terrorist attacks on the US .
To honor the rescue workers who lost their lives in the tragedy , Joel played with the helmet of one of the New York City Firefighters who died in The World Trade Center on his piano .
Some of the many artists to record this song include Mel Tormé , Tony Bennett , Diane Schuur and Barbra Streisand .
