This David Lee Murphy and Ben Hayslip penned song finds Aldean collaborating with Luke Bryan and Eric Church , both of whom have toured with the Country star .
`` The three of us are friends , and I felt like this song , having a little attitude about it , just made sense for those guys , '' he told Billboard magazine .
`` Luke 's not necessarily known for a lot of attitude , Eric is , but I thought having Luke come in on the verse he came in on fit him real well .
I just thought it would be a cool moment on the record , us doing our thing .
Luke 's hot as can be , Eric 's hot , having us all three on a song that made sense was a no-brainer .
It started out with the idea of us three being on it , and once we got the green light , it was ` alright , this is gon na be pretty special , ' and it turned out to be . ''
The song topped the Country charts , Aldean 's seventh consecutive # 1 and the eleventh of his career .
All three of the artists have a busy schedule , so the recording process took a lot of planning .
Aldean explained to The Boot : `` I cut my part of the song first , and then -LSB- producer Michael -RSB- Knox and I sat down and said , ' I think this would be a good part for Luke and then we could bring Eric in on this .
You somewhat have it mapped out how you want it to go .
We brought Luke in , he did his thing .
I was there when he did his part .
`` Aldean was away touring when Church laid down his part after which he and Knox had the job of piecing together the three contributions .
`` You figure out what sounds best where , who sang this line better , '' he explained .
`` Make it where it does n't sound like you 're trying to give three guys a part when it sounds jumbled up .
You want every part of it to kind of breathe a little bit .
The listeners , you want their ears to have time to adjust and go , ` OK , that 's Luke ... that 's Eric ... that 's Jason . '
A lot of times you 'll try things that do n't work , and then you 'll go back and try something else , until you finally dial it in .
We had somewhat of an idea of how we wanted it to be before we ever got in there . ''
This won the Academy of Country Music award for Vocal Event of the Year .
Eric Church also won Album of the Year for Chief at the ceremony .
