This is the third single from American rapper Kanye West 's fifth studio album , My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy .
The song features a star-studded collection of contributing artists .
The list includes four from West 's G.O.O.D. Friday label : Kid Cudi , John Legend , Ryan Leslie and Charlie Wilson .
You may have heard of at least some of the other seven guest performers as well .
They are : Alicia Keys , Sir Elton John , Fergie , La Roux 's Elly Jackson , Rihanna , The-Dream and Tony Williams .
Despite the assortment of stars from different musical genres , West described the sound at a screening of his Runaway short film as `` completely seamless and completely ghetto as f -- . ''
Rihanna told MTV News just prior to the album 's release that she jumped at the chance of appearing on this track . ''
-LSB- Kanye -RSB- actually played his album to me , like , three months ago , and ` All of the Lights , ' that was one of my favorite songs , '' she recalled .
`` So when he asked me to come up to the studio at 2 o'clock in the morning , I had to , because I loved it , I knew it was that song . ''
Drake also recorded vocals for this track but was dropped from the final version .
During an appearance on Shade 45 's morning show the rapper explained that despite not knowing why he was removed , he 's cool about it .
Said Drake : `` We make music differently .
I make what comes to me and I hate changing it , whereas ` Ye will change something 30 or 40 times to get it perfect .
To each their own , and the change was to put all those people on it , and I was n't one of them .
That 's completely OK . ''
UK group Epilepsy Action expressed concern that the flashing neon lights in the clip may cause seizures .
They said in a statement : `` We sent the video to Cambridge Research Systems to be analysed by the HardingFPA machine .
This machine looks at whether video footage is likely to cause seizures .
We have today had confirmation that it contains material that may cause seizures in some people with photosensitive epilepsy . ''
One artist you may be surprised to see appearing on this song is British pop/rock singer-songwriter Sir Elton John .
However , the Candle in the Wind singer has paired with hip-hop in the past , having performing at the 2001 Grammys with Eminem .
La Roux 's vocalist , Elly Jackson , admitted to MTV News that she ca n't hear her contribution on the finished track : `` I came to New York , and I did a couple of days in the studio with him , '' she recalled to MTV News .
`` He got me to layer up all these vocals with other people , and he just basically wanted to use his favorite vocalists from around the world to create this really unique vocal texture on his record , but it 's not the kind of thing where you can pick it out .
I do n't have a verse or anything .
I ca n't actually hear my voice on it , '' she laughed .
`` But apparently it 's there ! ''
The Hype Williams directed music video was filmed in January 2011 in Los Angeles .
Both Rihanna and Kid Cudi make appearance in the clip , which was inspired by the opening credits of Gaspar Noé 's 2009 French film The Enter the Void .
This won Best Rap Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration at the 2012 Grammys .
West won two other categories at the same ceremony ; Best Rap Album for My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy and Best Rap Performance for his collaboration with Jay-Z .
`` Otis . ''
The prizes took West 's total Grammy haul to 18 .
