The song features raunchy lyrics about Britney being set on fire .
The use of fire both figuratively and literally -LRB- and we hope in Britney 's case its metaphorical ! -RRB-
is a frequently used device by songwriters .
Check out songs where stuff is on fire for more .
Claude Kelly told MTV News that he came up with the dance tune while thinking of Britney 's sexiest moments .
`` The picture that I envisioned in my mind was ` Toxic , ' ` Slave 4 U , ' ` Boys , ' like that kind of thing where it 's sexy and it 's hot , sweaty and she 's in a club and she sees a guy , '' he explained .
`` That mysterious , exotic look , that whole imagery and that era where she 's a man-eater and all the girls want to be her and all the guys would kill to be with her .
I think she pulled it off for sure . ''
The Dr. Luke and Benny Blanco produced track was co-written by Claude Kelly .
The My Life Would Suck Without You and Party in the U.S.A. songwriter recalled Spear 's recording of the song to PopEater : `` Britney went in and knocked it out in one session .
I 'm really happy with the record because she sounds happy .
The melody is slick and very fun .
I love Britney 's attitude , and there 's a real sex appeal to ` Gasoline . '
It 's one of those sexy pop records that Britney 's great at doing .
`` Kelly added that he was also taken aback by her throwback approach to the track .
`` When I heard ` Gasoline , ' Britney really surprised me because it sounds like she is having a good time , '' he said of the singer , who has overcome a series of personal difficulties .
Kelly knew that Spears wanted Femme Fatale to be a darker record .
`` For this time , she 's in a place where she wants to be edgier again , so I was like , ` How am I going to make the word gasoline a cool song ? ' ''
he recalled .
`` That 's really the challenge for me and I tried to play off what I know of Britney from the past , from the Blackout era , when she was more mysterious and dark .
The one thing that kind of strings all of the songs along is that feeling of edginess and mysterious and sexy and a little bit playful but a little bit dangerous .
If you can tap into what she 's in the mood for , which is what happened with ` Gasoline , ' clearly her mind was in the zone that ' I want to be edgy . ' ''
