Rancid is an American punk band who formed in 1991 .
Based in California , they include vocalist Tim Armstrong , guitarist Lars Frederiksen , bassist Matt Freeman and drummer Branden Steineckert .
Let the Dominoes Fall , which was produced by Epitaph Records founder and Bad Religion guitarist Brett Gurewitz , was their seventh studio album .
Freeman commented : `` Tim and I grew up in the East Bay and our parents still live in our childhood homes .
It 's a big part of who we are and continues to be .
The song has a classic Matt and Tim dueling bass and guitar middle section .
It sounds very East Bay punk rock feel to it .
When we were recording it , I did the bass solo with my old 77 P bass .
It is a little out of tune on the high register .
The bass is twenty years old , it happens .
Mr. Brett wanted me to do it over again with another bass , but Tim said no .
Out of tune , so be it , it stays . ''
Frederiksen : `` Punk rock is best when it 's blaring , adding the soundtrack as you gather with friends .
As the mental Polaroid camera is taking snapshots of the interactions between us , this is a song that documents that like photograph . ''
The band explained this track on their MySpace site : `` This song was written about growing up in the East Bay .
Writing about the bay area always came easy to us .
In so many ways you are where you came from , it 's engrained in you .
It can shape you and define you as well as the experiences you may have throughout your life .
As you grow up you rediscover where you came from .
So much of our history , family ... roots come from the Bay Area .
We had finished our record and decided to record a few more songs we had written , which is not uncommon for us to do .
For example we wrote ` Ruby Soho ; last minute , `` Salvation '' was the last song written at the very end of making Let 's Go .
So when we feel something we go with it .
` East Bay Night ' is another song like that .
It harkens back to Operation Ivy and Rancid 's first record . ''
Armstrong said : `` I 've been playing music with Matt for twenty five years and have known him since we were in the first grade .
There 's a deep connection between us .
So when we play music together that connection we have come across .
How could it not !
We do n't think about it , it just happens .
The middle eight in ` East Bay Night ' is a great example of our chemistry .
He 's flying through the scales and I 'm playing the octaves .
It 's loose and it 's wild , but it 's real to me . ''
