The former Rock Star : Supernova contestant gets very zen on this song .
In our interview with Ryan Star , he told us : `` A lot of the theme of this album 11:59 is all about the moment , and living in this moment , and this romantic carpe diem word we always heard , this phrase that we always heard growing up , and trying to make sense of it .
I was living on a beach making the album and writing these words , and I was for the first time really connecting with myself , talking about mindful eating , which is really understanding food when you put it in your mouth .
It 's a better eating experience than sitting in front of the TV and stuffing your face .
But really just recognizing what is happening right now .
Here I am , making a record , living really a lonely life , because I was living all alone on the beach and just coming to the studio and then coming home and then going to the studio and writing.So the song ` Brand New Day ' was really about something 's about to happen .
Here we are , when you recognize exactly where you are in the moment , then something else is definitely going to happen the next moment .
If you 're really living in that snapshot life , then there 's going to be another snapshot .
Because during the day it 's kind of like , well , what 's coming next ?
I know every generation probably says , ` Oh , this is important , ' or ` this is important . '
But only some can truly live up to that at the end of the day .
And I think this time period that we 're looking at now is one of them .
As I was writing the song , the whole world was changing .
You had a guy named Barack Obama actually having a shot at the presidency , and all these things were happening .
And on a social side , I thought it was very relevant that there was a brand new day coming for everybody .
And on a personal level , there 's a little story there , a Romeo and Juliet story , which always finds its way into my songs , about these kids , and hey , I 'm gon na come to your window and we 're getting out of this town , and let 's not wake up your father .
And no one can chase us .
We 're getting out of this small town .
And with a little bit of an attitude .
My favorite line is , ` they say that we 're flying too high , well , get used to looking up . '
There 's no sky here , who says you ca n't do this ?
Who says you ca n't leave a small town ?
Who says you ca n't be what you want to be ?
And on a personal side , that 's where I was coming from .
Because I do n't come from a place where people do what I do .
I do n't come from a family that does that .
So that 's the sentiment to that song .
There 's the social aspect to it , and then there 's the very personal aspect to it . ''
Regarding the lyrics , `` turn back the clock , I need more time , '' Ryan told us : `` There are so many time references in my songs , and I think moving forward into the brand new day I was thinking , Well , where have I come from ?
And I think it was like , Who am I ?
Where have I come from to be at this exact moment right now with you ?
And it 's been a while since I 've sat there writing the words , but I would think that that 's where I was coming from.I kept on thinking ` clock , ' I kept on thinking time , because one of my songs has literally a clock sound in the beginning .
` Time , time , time , ' so when you think of it enough they all creep their way in .
And yeah , ` turn back the clock , give me some time , I need to break out and make a new name . '
It says , ` and make a new name , ' and I think I must have been thinking that I need to see where I 've come from .
Like , where did all this happen ?
Flashback to when I was 7 and remembered picking up a guitar or whatever .
Who was that person ?
Because I 'm moving forward into my new self now .
And who am I bringing with me?By the way , it 's funny , I was just having a conversation with one of my guru inspirational friends named Stoney .
And he told me , ` Every once in a while pick up a picture of yourself when you were a kid , and transform yourself back to that moment when you were a kid .
It 's so therapeutic .
It 's better than a therapy session .
Just stare at yourself as a kid , and then channel that , and remember who it is . '
And he brought up that line , and it makes me think that maybe I had that conversation with him yesterday for that .
It 's like somehow you 're not in the moment if you 're reminiscing , it 's just where you are now .
But I think maybe that kid is always in us , and we 've got ta take him with us as we move forward . ''
This song was first released in 2009 on Ryan 's Last Train Home EP , and it is the theme song to the TV show Lie To Me .
Star 's girlfriend Hallie is the female voice in this song .
Says Ryan : `` She 's living up to her name as my muse , my inspiration . ''
