Ellie Goulding provides guest vocals on this track , which lays Tempah 's rap over a dreamy electro pop beat .
She told the BBC program Newsbeat : `` He 's one of these people I believe in , and not just because of his music , but because he 's a lovely person .
-LSB- The track is -RSB- about not having all that much when you 're little and then working very hard and then having a lot more than you used to have and being very grateful .
So I can relate to it - it 's really cool . ''
Tempah told the story behind this song in an interview with Artist Direct : `` You know how they say every superhero needs his or her theme tune ?
It 's not even just superheroes .
Everybody has their theme song .
You must have your particular theme song that gets you upbeat about life when you 're about to go out clubbing or when you 're about to go on a date .
You play this song because it gives you your mojo .
` Wonderman ' is that for me .
I thought it 'd be cool if I created my own theme tune .
Basically , it 's about the trials and tribulations I had to face and overcoming them .
It 's almost like a superhero story but in the context of an artist .
They always have very humble beginnings and then something extraordinary happens .
That 's how I feel my life has taken course .
` Wonderman ' is exactly that for me.Ellie Goulding is featured on the song .
When she comes in on the chorus , she 's kind of saying , `` This is your fate .
Are you ready to accept it ?
The spotlight is on you .
Are you ready to take the blue pill , as it were , and go for it ? ''
Tempah told The Sun how he hooked up with the electro-pop singer : `` We met properly earlier this year at the Dingwalls venue in Camden , north London , when we were on the same bill and just hit it off.She 's just a really cool chick .
She 's come to watch a few of my shows and vice versa .
We continued to stay in touch .
The media kept saying .
` When are you guys going to work together ? '
So I was like ` You know what ?
Let 's do it for the album . ' ''
