In this track Lil Wayne is assisted by T-Pain .
The southern rapper told MTV news that T-Pain is one of the people in music who inspired him .
He declared : `` I am music .
That 's me , Jack .
I found a new love for music , and I got to owe it to a lot of people in the game .
They do n't even know .
I got to owe a lot to T-Pain .
He made me really look at myself .
I always look at somebody like , ' I ca n't do what you do , but man , I damn sure wish I could . '
So when I figure out what I could do about that , I go and do it .
So every time I get a chance to say it , T-Pain , Prince , Wyclef , Lauryn Hill , Erykah Badu , Alicia Keys , Lenny Kravitz - all these are people I looked at the past two years .
I viewed them seriously and was like , ` Wow , I could do that without being totally them . '
I can present it as Lil Wayne . ''
This was produced by Play N Skillz , who are Texan brothers Juan `` Play '' and Oscar `` Skillz '' Salinas .
Play -LRB- from the same Rhapsody interview -RRB- : `` Pitbull was gon na use it , but T-Pain did n't finish the hook in time .
N.O.R.E. and Slim Thug recorded over it .
Fat Joe was interested .
Rick Ross passed over it .
So we started shopping it , but nobody took it .
November -LSB- ' 07 -RSB- , T-Pain 's manager reached out to me , telling me Wayne wanted it .
Then , one day , I got it on my iPhone with Wayne and T-Pain 's vocals on the actual track .
Then we could n't come to the mixing or the mastering , which we were upset about .
Wayne does n't let you come unless he has personal relationship with you , which we did n't .
Skillz is such a music guy that he does n't care about the money , he cares about the situation .
So he was like , ` F -- k it , they ca n't have it . '
But I 'm more of the business head , like , ` Nah , it 's Carter III and we 're going to get this single . '
-LSB- Wayne 's engineer -RSB- Fabian Marasciullo , did a great job on the record . ''
On this song both Lil Wayne and T-Pain utilize the auto-tune device , which was originally popularized by the latter .
Skillz told Rhapsody about this track : `` We did the track in New York and right before we were gon na dump the track into the computer , the engineer stepped on the plug accidentally and turned off the MPC .
So we had to come back the next day and redo the whole track .
That s -- t was still in my head though . ''
Jonathan Davis of KoRn recorded a Rock version of this song in September 2008 .
On his website , Davis said the song is `` not representative of the album I 'm working on but it was just something fun I wanted to try . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB-
