Lindsey Stirling rose to prominence following a breakout appearance on Season 5 of America 's Got Talent .
She was voted off in the quarterfinals after Piers Morgan told her the world had no place for a dancing Dub-Step violinist .
However she proved him wrong , firstly by attracting a lot of fans with her choreographed violin performances on her YouTube channel , then when her eponymous debut album reached # 23 on the Billboard 200 .
The album also charted within the Top 5 in Germany , Austria and Switzerland .
Speaking with Artist Direct , Stirling explained the background to the song : `` It has a pretty deep meaning , '' she said .
`` Basically , it 's about creating inner beauty in yourself first .
It all comes back to research being done by a scientist who studied the crystallization of water . ''
`` Basically , he 'd test out water and look at it at a magnified level as it crystallized in different environments , '' Stirling continued .
`` If it was in positive environments where good things were being spoken to it , the crystals came out beautiful .
Whereas if negative things were said to these little vials of water , these crystals where these jagged shapes that were meaningless . ''
`` When we surround ourselves eternally with positivity and we create healthy and positive environments and we do good things for people and ourselves , we 're made up of 70 percent water so the crystals in your body create actual literal inner beauty , '' Stirling added .
`` That 's what `` Crystallize '' is about .
It 's about taking control of your environment , creating beauty within yourself , and therefore creating beauty outside .
I know that 's pretty deep , but that 's what it 's about . ''
This song was produced by longtime producer/collaborator of the Black Eyed Peas , DJ Poet , and released as the lead single from the Lindsey Stirling album .
USA Today described the tune as `` Mozart meets Skrillex . ''
The music video was filmed in the ice castles of Silverthorne Colorado and was co-directed by Stirling with Devin Graham .
One of the most viewed clips of 2012 , it was # 8 on YouTube 's list of Top 10 Trending Videos for that year .
