This is a track from My Dinosaur Life , the fourth studio album by American pop punk band Motion City Soundtrack .
In the song 's first verse , Pierre sings about falling asleep watching American TV series Veronica Mars , a reference to the moment he began to write the tune .
He recalled to Spin magazine : `` I had just finished watching the final season of Veronica Mars on DVD , so I was relatively upset that there would be no more episodes . ''
Pierre explained how the song came to be written to the Alternative Press : `` During a break in the recording of My Dinosaur Life , I was back in Minneapolis watching the final season of Veronica Mars .
I was traipsing about the apartment again with an acoustic guitar when I stumbled across the ugly and brutally honest intro and chorus to this song .
I brought the idea to the boys and Josh -LSB- Cain , guitar -RSB- fleshed it out completely , writing the bridge and instrumental parts as well .
I then wrote the rest of the words to what he had constructed .
This is probably the most honest song I 've ever written and it took writing the song to finally overcome the feelings I was writing about . ''
On this track , frontman Justin Pierre wonders what direction his life might have taken had an ex-girlfriend not broken up with him in late 2006 .
`` This is the most honest song I 've ever written , '' Pierre told Spin magazine .
He continued : `` There are -LSB- people -RSB- that I 've run into that blame the direction or outcome of their lives on a single incident .
This idea has always fascinated me .
Had the woman not split up with me , I would most likely not have spiraled out of control to the point of no return , which allowed me to start over from scratch .
What seemed like a tragedy three years ago turned out to be the best thing for both parties involved . ''
Motion City Soundtrack guitarist Joshua Cain explained the My Dinosaur Life album title to MTV News : `` Justin -LSB- Pierre -RSB- came up with the title .
It was some quote that he was saying all the time , and we all liked it , so he put it in the lyrics .
We liked the idea of it , because there are a lot of different meanings : being out of place , being old .
We like that it has many meanings . ''
CMU asked Pierre what inspired My Dinosaur Life .
He replied : `` The last couple years of my life .
Although , I did n't know that at the onset .
It is quite fascinating to me that the order of the songs on the record traces an almost perfect trajectory of my life , from the recording of last album Even If It Kills Me to the beginning stages of this one . ''
