This Rodney ` Darkchild ' Jerkins-produced song is the second single by R&B singer-songwriter Shontelle from her sophomore studio album , No Gravity .
Darkchild has also worked with a number of other leading artists including Britney Spears , The Pussycat Dolls and Beyoncé .
This song about a love/hate relationship that Shontelle ca n't seem to break off , could be seen as the female equivalent of Ne-Yo 's `` Beautiful Monster . ''
The single was sent to US radio on August 31 , 2010 .
Originally , `` No Gravity '' and `` Say Hello to Goodbye '' were tipped to be the album 's second single but both possible releases were scrapped in favor of this tune .
Colin Tilley directed the song 's music video in Los Angeles .
Shontelle explained its concept to Sound-Savvy : `` It is just really a story between me and this boyfriend I have .
He is like a super champion boxer .
He 's a Muay Thai fighter .
He 's really , really hot so ladies prepare yourself for a lot of eye candy .
But anyways , so my Muay-Thai fighter , superstar boyfriend ... I notice I like superstar boyfriends .
First I had a producer boyfriend , now I have a superstar athlete .
Anyways , so he starts cheating on me .
It 's like at first he 's really good to me .
He 's really a good boyfriend to me .
He really is .
Not in the case of ` Impossible ' where the boyfriend is bad .
He 's actually really good but he cheats .
He does everything right .
He 's the best : attentive , he makes me feel loved , gives me all the attention I need , anything I need .
But then when he 's at work he has this other girlfriend that 's always in the gym , but I actually know about it and I 'm putting up with this stuff .
And that 's literally ... the video tells the story of the song which is basically I 'm living the perfect nightmare .
I 'm living this life that 's actually quite tragic where I have no right allowing someone to do this to me , but I 'm so in love because of the way he makes me feel and so that 's why I 'm like `` when will I wake up and scream no way '' .
This is a nightmare .
Something bad is happening to me but I 'm enjoying it .
That 's really how the video literally tells a story .
In the video I 'm just going to say , since it 's not out yet , he learns his lessons .
And I pretty much do wake up from the perfect nightmare . ''
