This is the first single by American indie rock band Death Cab For Cutie , from their seventh studio album , titled Codes and Keys .
The song premiered on Seattle radio station 107.7 The End on March 28 , 2011 .
Despite being released as a lead single , the song was a late addition to the album .
Death Cab bassist Nick Harmer told MTV News : `` This song actually came in late during the recording process .
I mean , we had a group of songs in the beginning that we were working on , and you never really know what your album 's going to be at the start of a process , but we knew what songs we were going to start working on .
Then -LSB- Ben -RSB- brought -LSB- ` Tourist ' -RSB- in later on in the process , and the fact that it went from being a song that we had n't gone into the process knowing about ... to suddenly becoming a song that we immediately reacted to , that as soon as we recorded it , we just knew it was going to be the first song to release from this album .
That was a fun development for us . ''
Death Cab made history on April 5 , 2011 when they became the first act to broadcast a live , scripted , single-take music video for the song on the Internet .
The idea for the one-take clip came from Aaron Stewart-Ahn , who co-directed the 2008 video for `` I Will Possess Your Heart . ''
`` Most of the time when you have an idea , somebody 's already done it , and it really did n't seem like that was the case for this , '' said guitarist/keyboardist Chris Walla to Billboard magazine .
`` So we needed to move on it if we wanted to do it . ''
The optimistic lyrics -LRB- `` There 's nothing to fear / Save the tears , save the tears '' -RRB- reflect frontman Ben Gibbard 's happier state of mind after the gloomy , self-loathing material on Narrow Stairs .
This is most likely down to his marriage to actress and musician Zooey Deschanel whom he wed in September 2009 .
Their union lasted just two years .
`` Tourist '' is one of the most poppy songs that Death Cab has recorded , making it different to most of the other material in the band 's catalog .
Gibbard told MTV News : `` It 's weird , there 's not really a narrative in the song .
I feel like the lyrics and the verses are kind of more , just , affirmations than anything else ; they 're not really deep thoughts .
But I feel that there 's a kind of particular narrative within the bridge that kind of ties everything together , and balances out the affirmations in the verse .
And that 's the thing I 'm most fond of in the song , is that , you know , the verses are catchy and light - it 's a pop song - but at the same time , there 's a weight to it , that you kind of get in the bridge that kind of ties it all together . ''
