This was chosen as the album 's first single because of the fan response to the song .
His third major label album , Mraz originally released the songs on 3 separate EP 's for a limited period of time .
The first was titled `` We Sing , '' the second `` We Dance , '' and the third was `` We Steal Things . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Since the release of the 2005 demo version of the track , hundreds of fans have posted versions of themselves covering the track on YouTube .
Mraz told Billboard magazine : `` I never instigated any of the covers .
But I can see why people are drawn to the song , and because it is about generosity , I wanted to share it . ''
According to the album 's publicity materials , this song is `` about finally giving into love and life 's possibilities . ''
This hit # 1 in its 28th week on the Adult Top 40 chart .
It thus broke the record for the longest any song has taken to reach the top position on this list , surpassing the 27 weeks it took Daniel Powter 's `` Bad Day '' to land at # 1 .
This was a # 1 song in several European countries including Norway , Sweden and Portugal .
In April 2009 this became the 22nd song to spend at least a year on the Hot 100 .
The previous song to achieve the same feat was Carrie Underwood 's `` Before He Cheats , '' which spent 64 weeks on the chart in 2006-07 .
Regarding the song 's multi-genre appeal , Mraz stated to Billboard magazine : `` I think it 's because it borrows from every one of those formats .
Or perhaps the song is genre-less .
The first two and a half minutes have so little production you could almost classify it as spoken-word .
Yet it 's rhythmic and melodic at the same time . ''
Mraz received song of the year honors for this tune at the 2010 American Society of Composers , Authors and Publishers ' annual Pop Music Awards .
The awards recognize the writers and publishers of ASCAP 's most performed songs of the year .
A demo version originally appeared in 2005 on a limited release bonus EP Extra Credit , which Mraz put out to promote his Mr. A-Z album .
It 's likely that We Sing .
We Dance .
We Steal Things .
is the first Billboard Top 3 album whose title is made up of three sentences .
We Sing .
We Dance .
We Steal Things takes its title from a piece of art by Glasgow-based artist David Shrigley that Mraz saw in Scotland while traveling .
The Virginia-born singer-songwriter explained on his record label 's website : `` What I love about mankind is that yes , we sing and we celebrate and we dance when we 're foolish and we steal things .
It 's hard to have a new idea in music , in fashion , the land we walk on .
It 's all recycled .
I think to say we stole it is a lot more fun . ''
Shrigley , who is best known for his humorous cartoons was asked by Mraz to design the album art .
Mraz told The Sun December 19 , 2008 that this song is about `` generosity .
About giving yourself or your time to someone or something else . ''
This was the first song to top the Adult Contemporary , Adult Top 40 , Mainstream Top 40 and Triple A charts .
On the chart dated August 29 , 2009 this song logged on for its 70th week on the Hot 100 , breaking the record for most weeks spent on that chart .
The track surpassed LeAnn Rimes `` How Do I Live , '' which had a 69 week run on the survey between June 14 , 1997 and Oct. 10 , 1998 .
The song 's longevity can be attributed to its saturation on a variety of different radio formats .
Mraz told Billboard magazine that initially he had `` little expectations '' about this song on the radio .
He added : `` But I was wrong .
People just kept getting on board at both ends of the radio dial .
I 'm still blown away , humbled by the success of my happy little hippie song . ''
The song finally departed the Hot 100 after 76 weeks .
Mraz told Billboard magazine the story of the song : `` It was written rather quickly , maybe 15 or 20 minutes .
I was at home in my writing room , chugging along on my electric guitar , minding my Reggae influences , grateful for another sunny afternoon in San Diego .
The melody just appeared out of nowhere while the words flew over my head as my thoughts were focused on surrendering to the moment .
That is ultimately what the song is about - giving yourself or your time to someone or something else .
I thought it was cool and had a nice bounce , and I began playing it live almost immediately .
That was five years ago .
After it had lived on the road for a while I decided to put it on a record to give it a home .
`` Mraz added : `` When I finally recorded it , my fans were relieved that we did n't overproduce it .
We kept the feel and arrangement true to how we play it live .
And what I 've noticed , the fans react in a way that shows the song is n't about me .
This is a song that people sing to each other , or to themselves .
It can be a love song or a personal song of empowerment .
Its melody is not unlike a nursery rhyme , and the message is like reading fortune cookie after fortune cookie . ''
