Ross told MTV News that the concept of this song , `` was just , that 's really what it is - every day I get up and live the life that I live .
Do the things I do .
Move how I move .
Walking in the valley of death , I feel my life is on the line every day .
It 's a 50/50 chance . ''
In March 2009 the Miami rapper Trick Daddy announced that he has the skin disease Lupus .
A lyric on this song , `` Very first line he called Trick Daddy stupid / Said he had AIDS telling people that it 's lupus , '' understandably upset the Florida rapper .
He said to MTV News that his disease should n't be taken lightly .
Said Trick : `` Millions of people are stricken with lupus .
I have stayed out of the bulls -- t , I will continue to stay out of it .
Ross had been with Slip-N-Slide Records as long as I have been with Slip-N-Slide Records .
He 's known I 've had lupus for 10 years .
I was referred to my doctor by Ted Lucas who is the head of Slip-N-Slide Records .
I would like to apologize to everyone suffering with lupus .
I would like to apologize for the insults . ''
Toomp clarified that the song 's hook was not sampled .
He explained : `` The singing with the lady 's voice - everybody thinks that 's a sample , nah .
That 's a woman that sings on a lot of Snoop 's s -- t .
The way we EQ ` ed it sounds like a sample , but nah .
It has a few strikes behind it .
That 's just a person singing on the mic - it just has that effect on it . ''
On this song Ross speaks briefly on his controversial stint as a prison guard but denies the rumor that he was ever an officer of the law .
Instead he claims that that he had `` two jobs , '' as at the same time he was working as a corrections officer , he was also on the streets .
Co-producer DJ Toomp revealed to MTV News that this song was originally intended for Jay-Z .
He explained : `` At the end of last year , I decided to go round up some producers - we all put our heads together on that joint and that 's what it was .
They brought -LSB- a rough version of the beat -RSB- to me and I ended up fattening it up , I heard the whole idea and originally I was gon na give that to Jay-Z , believe it or not .
`` A mutual friend of Ross and Toomp 's convinced the producer to let the Florida rapper hear the track .
Toomp recalled : `` We went to Ross ' crib in Atlanta .
I played that beat and he lost his mind .
I played a few beats , but that particular one , he was like , ` That 's it , man . '
We was just kicking it .
He played a few joints off the album to show me what direction he was going and immediately I knew what to give him based on what 's on his playlist .
He started mumbling ideas .
I knew he was going in the right direction . ''
