The legendary record man Clive Davis is famous for developing the careers of Whitney Houston , Aerosmith and Alicia Keys , but Air Supply was one of his greatest success stories .
`` Lost In Love '' was a hit in the group 's native Australia in 1979 , but Davis released it in America and unleashed these Soft-Rock Superstars on an international audience .
Graham Russell , who is Air Supply 's guitarist and songwriter , told us : `` Clive bought the rights to ` Lost In Love ' for Arista Records .
` Love In Love ' had already been a hit in Australia , and I think he was waiting for the turn of the decade , so he released it very early in January , I think the first week .
Initially he just had the single .
And I saw the single being reviewed in Cash Box magazine when I was overseas trying to scrape money together to live , because I was broke .
It said , ` This song is destined to go all the way to Top 5 . '
I could n't believe it .
So I called Clive up , and he said , ` Yeah , it 's happening . '
We did n't even know we had a release coming out , that it had been picked up .
So I was on my way back to Australia , and I came through Los Angeles , and I saw Clive , because I wanted to see if it was real .
And he said , ` Oh , yeah .
It 's all happening .
You 've been signed to Arista .
You need to go back and make the album , ' because we had n't done the album .
So that 's how it all went down .
It was kind of strange .
But he was very into the band in those early years , very much so . ''
According to Graham Russell , he wrote this song in just 15 minutes .
He told us : '' ` Lost In Love ' is such a simple song .
I think about the songs before I start to write them , and I think about where they 're going to go .
I 'm very aware that when that inspiration comes , it comes very quickly : it 's like a dart , and it does n't last a long time , that real initial impulse .
So when it comes I know that the thoughts are going to be scattered , and they 're going to come really fast , and I need to get them down quickly , so I need to think about the song first when I know it 's coming .
When a song is coming I get a weird feeling , and then I kind of drift somewhere on my own to think about it .
But when I actually play the piano or pick the guitar up , it 'll come really quickly .
But my songs , too , are very simple .
I mean , I 'm not into jazz , and I 'm not into fusion or anything like that .
My songs are really straight ahead , real simple chords , the simpler the better .
So a song like ` Lost In Love ' with four chords , there 's only two parts to it .
There 's really no chorus .
There 's just a verse and a bridge .
So something like that should n't take longer than 15 minutes to write , you know . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Graham Russell . -RRB-
