This was written by Billy Montana , Jenai , and Ilya Toshinsky , who called this `` the song of a thousand pitches . ''
Said Billy , `` I believe in 2000 is when we turned that song in .
And it took six and a half years for it to find a home with Martina .
I have two publishers that represent my catalog , and they were both like , ` This is one of the top five songs in our catalog , ' and they played it for everybody , everybody listened the whole way through it , but no one would pull the trigger and record it .
And finally Martina heard basically a guitar vocal work tape of it , and I do n't know , for some reason the day was right , and she dug it , and recorded it , did it and made a great record . ''
In a performance at the Bluebird Cafe , a Nashville hot spot for songwriters , Billy elaborated on the story : `` My wife and I have three children , and they 're not children anymore , but they were once .
And when our family was growing , and I was delivering pizzas for Domino 's , making probably eight bucks an hour down there trying to write songs , and I used to drive this 1977 Monte Carlo where you could see the road through three out of the four places where your feet were supposed to go .
And so we decided -- there were big , heavy doors , and we had two car seats , and that was just not going to work .
And so we decided we were gon na move up in car .
And obviously , with a growing family we needed a family car .
We were looking for a station wagon .
But things were tight ; I was delivering pizzas .
And so we went to this Chevy dealer , they had these little 2.2 liter Cavalier wagons , you know the ones I 'm talking about ?
The station wagon .
Anyway , I think they were going for about $ 9,000 at the time , and it was still a lot of money , and we had to do it .
So we had the kids with us , and Charlie , who 's here tonight , was with us there , and so we 're checking out station wagons .
But out on the showroom floor was this pure white $ 44,000 Corvette convertible .
And Charlie was about 5 years old at the time , and he was checking out the car , and one of the salesmen comes up to him and says , ` You wan na buy that car ? '
And Charlie says , ` Nope , it 's not big enough .
We 're buying a station wagon ! '
So , it kind of made me think we ought to look at things like that more often , and be grateful for what we have .
But we do n't always do that . ''
Billy 's son Randy Montana released his first album in 2010 , containing the songs `` Ai n't Much Left of Lovin ' You '' and `` 1,000 Faces . ''
Randy has some of the lyrics to `` House Of A Thousand Dreams '' tattooed on his shoulder : `` I 'll keep praying , hope we 'll go on living in this house of a thousand dreams . ''
Randy told us : `` It 's my favorite song he 's ever written .
I grew up in a little itty bitty house where everything was going wrong , but me and my brother and sister loved it .
And I always tell people I did n't know I was poor till I was 12 years old . ''
For Billy Montana this song is especially personal , because it represents the careful navigation of the early years of his marriage while hugging the edge financially .
`` People ask you how long does it take you to write a song , '' explains Billy .
`` And sometimes I can knock one out with somebody in an hour and a half or two , and then sometimes it takes a long time .
And I always say this song took over a year to write .
And the reason for that was because Ilya Toshinsky and I had music , and I was in love with the music , and did n't want to squander it on an ordinary title .
So I was really trying to find something extraordinary to say .
And it was n't like I worked on it every day for a year , believe me .
I mean , you 're writing songs all in between that .
But every once in a while you go back and pull music out , or if you were walking around you were thinking , Well , man , what is it ?
What is this supposed to be ?
And so I finally got this -- and I do n't know where it came from -- just one of those titles that ... I just got that concept for ` House of a thousand dreams , ' but I still was n't sure what it should represent .
I just loved the way those words sounded together , and I thought it was appropriate for the music .
So I took that idea to Jenai , and she and I had just had hit a pretty good lick with the Sara Evans hit ` Suds in the Bucket , ' and just writing the songs that were getting attention , getting activity .
And so we decided to structure it as being like -- using my family as an example -- it 's like back when I was a struggling songwriter delivering pizzas for Domino 's , and driving a car where you could see the road through the floor , and that kind of thing .
I was thinking I was n't providing enough as the breadwinner .
And that 's what the first verse is about , the perspective of the man of the house who 's discontent with his work and income level and all that .
Thinks he 's not doing enough .
And then the second verse is from the perspective of the wife , and she 's making the most of what they have .
So she 's kind of in-between .
She 'll cut corners where she needs to , and that kind of thing .
And so that verse is her .
And then the last verse is through the eyes of their child , who is absolutely in love with where they live , and all the material stuff means nothing to the child .
And the only thing that matters is that his parents love each other and love him and his brother and sister .
And so that 's really the concept to that song , and that 's why it 's real personal to us .
`` Having a female co-writer , Jenai , put the woman 's perspective into the song .
Billy says , `` It 's interesting , because I do n't usually remember a lot about the details of a writing session .
We got in and I do n't keep track of whose lines are whose , usually .
But I do kind of remember her bringing to the table , there 's a line in the second verse about the wife talking about the curtains .
The line goes , ` So I 'll find some yard sale curtains for the windows and sew some yellow trim along the seams .
And I 'll keep praying , hope I go on living in this house of a thousand dreams . '
And she definitely was instrumental in that line about the curtains . ''
-LRB- laughs -RRB- `` And really , going back even further , I was like the kid in the third verse , because the household that I grew up in , very similarly , I was oblivious to the fact that we did n't have as much in the way of material possessions and wealth .
We just did n't have it , we always did without .
But I never realized that .
I did n't realize it until I look back and go , well , gee , we really were scrimping by there .
If I play a writers show and I play that song , that seems to be the one that people come up after and go , ` Man , that was incredible . '
Because I just think maybe a lot of people have experienced that same sort of thing . ''
Montana : `` Before Martina recorded it , it was kind of like my family 's favorite song , because it was representative of them .
And my oldest son got a tattoo on his right shoulder that 's got the lyric of the chorus .
He was 19 when he got it , and there was nothing I could do .
I was writing with somebody who said , ` Well , that 's a sucker punch . '
I mean , what are you gon na do , get aggravated that he put the words to your song on his arm ?
-LRB- laughing -RRB- It 's hard to be ticked off about that . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Billy Montana . -RRB-
