There are two prominent theories regarding the title of this song :1 -RRB- The name `` Yellow Ledbetter '' derives from an old tongue twister in which you try to say `` yellow better , red better '' as fast as you can .
Just a few times repeated , the words become jumbled and you get `` yellow ledbetter . ''
The reason they named the song this is because the lyrics are indistinguishable just like the tongue twister .2 -RRB- It 's a tribute to Huddy Ledbetter -LRB- known as Leadbelly -RRB- , who was one of the founding fathers of Blues in the 1930s , and recorded much of his music while in jail for assault .
Leadbelly first recorded many classic tunes which have been covered by many bands , like `` Land of the Rising Sun '' and `` Where Did You Sleep Last Night .
`` The real meaning , however , as stated in Five Against One : The Pearl Jam Story by Kim Neely , is that the title was a joke in honor of a Chicago friend of Eddie Vedder 's named Tim Ledbetter .
-LRB- thanks , Martin - Rostock , Germany -RRB- The guitar part is a tribute to Jimi Hendrix , as it is much the same intro riff as his `` Little Wing . ''
-LRB- thanks , C - DC , DC , for above 3 -RRB- This does not appear on any of Pearl Jam 's studio albums ; it was released as the B-side of the `` Jeremy '' single .
Eddie Vedder admits that he changes the lyrics and meaning of the song when he performs it , but he wrote the song with one story in mind , which he told at a concert in Newark , New Jersey on August 7 , 2008 .
He asked if anyone had any questions , and a fellow asked what the lyrics to `` Yellow Ledbetter '' were .
Instead of going word for word , Eddie simply told the story of the song.The song was written during the first gulf war , when `` Papa Bush '' was President , as Eddie calls him .
The story is about a young Grunger kid , all dressed up in his flannels with the long greasy hair .
His brother goes off to fight in the war and gets killed .
He gets a letter that comes in one of those yellow army envelopes and learns of his brother 's death .
So , all upset , he decides to go out and walk it off .
On his walk he passes by a neat , middle-aged or elderly couple sitting on their front porch having some tea , and he sees that they have an American flag out .
He gives a wave , because he feels like he relates : `` The flag , my brother , you know ... '' But they do n't know , of course .
They do n't know what 's underneath the grunge and the long hair .
All they see are the outward appearances , and they do n't wave back.The song has changed its meaning over time and Eddie changes the words to suit whatever is on his mind .
-LRB- thanks , Graham - Morrisville , PA -RRB- Pearl Jam often uses this to close their concerts .
The houselights come on and the audience sings along .
A live version is the B-side of Pearl Jam 's `` Daughter '' single .
