Minaj debuted this song at the 2012 Grammy Awards with a very odd presentation .
Billed as `` The Exorcism of Roman , '' the performance featured Minaj in character as her alter ego Roman Zolanski , confessing to a priest before being chained to a wooden board as if possessed by the devil .
Eventually the Queens MC began levitating over the stage during the simulated exorcism .
Finally , Minaj 's alternate persona , Roman 's unseen mother Martha , tells him , `` Take your medication , Roman , take a short vacation , Roman .
You 'll be okay .
`` Minaj explained the Grammy performance to Ryan Seacrest saying , `` I had this vision for Roman -LSB- Zolanski -RSB- , I had this vision for him to be sort of exorcised - or actually he never gets exorcised - but people around him tell him that he 's not good enough because he 's not normal , and he 's not blending in with the average Joe .
And so his mother is scared and the people around him are afraid because they 've never seen anything like him .
`` The performance sparked predictable outcry from the Catholic League and many social media users .
Catholic League president Bill Donahue expressed his organization 's displeasure at Minaj 's offensive portrayal of possession , particularly `` the sexual statement that showed a scantily clad female dancer stretching backwards while an altar boy knelt between her legs in prayer . ''
Later on in his statement , he criticized The Recording Academy for allowing Minaj 's showpiece , saying , `` What is not in doubt is the irresponsibility of The Recording Academy .
Never would they allow an artist to insult Judaism or Islam . ''
Recognize the carol that Minaj randomly sings a couple of lines from in the bridge ?
- It 's of course the Christmas classic `` O Come All Ye Faithful . ''
Pink Friday : Roman Unleashed focuses on the return of Minaj 's unpredictable alter ego Roman Zolanski , who was first featured on her 2010 debut album , Pink Friday .
She kicks off the set with this song in which Roman proclaims , `` I 'm a lunatic and this ca n't be cured with no elixir . ''
Minaj 's `` Roman '' is a character , but the original Roman Holiday was a 1953 film starring Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck .
In the movie , Hepburn plays a princess who takes a vacation to Rome -LRB- her `` Roman Holiday '' -RRB- and does her best to cause dodge her handlers and have some fun .
