This collaboration between Korn and Los Angeles electro artist Skrillex was released as a free download on the band 's official website on April 18 2011 .
The track sees Korn carving out new territory in both heavy and electronic music .
`` I heard a few of Skrillex 's re-mixes and really felt there would be a good chance that he would have the right sensibility to connect us to a new hard sound and direction , but still keeping Korn guitars and our vibe , '' front man Jonathan Davis explained to Spin magazine .
`` We were just thinking of trying something new , to be honest , so I had my manager reach out to the Skrillex camp .
When we got into the studio the connection was instant ! ''
Encouraged by the reaction to this song , Korn recorded an entire album titled The Path of Totality with various dubstep producers including Excision , Datsik , Noisia , Kill the Noise , and 12th Planet .
When asked about the new creative direction bassist Reginald `` Fieldy '' Arvizu told NME that it was front man , Jonathan Davis ' idea .
`` Jonathan loved it -LSB- dubstep -RSB- and he just got us into it .
We feel it 's important to stay current and keep on top of what 's going on . ''
Jonathan Davis revealed to Kerrang !
magazine that the song was inspired by his hatred of everybody moaning about the recession .
He said : '' ` Get Up ' is about the recession .
I wish everyone would shut the f -- k up and have some fun .
Every day I 've got to hear about unemployment and people starving . ''
Jonathan Davis is no stranger to electronic music .
Growing up in Bakersfield , he used to DJ in high school and later listened to synth bands like Kraftwerk in the mortuary he worked in .
However , when he got into Korn , that pretty much stopped for awhile , before he decided he wanted to get back into the scene again .
Davis explained the album title : `` The title The Path of Totality refers to the fact that in order to see the sun in a full solar eclipse , you must be in the exact right place in the exact right time .
That 's how this album came together .
I think all the producers feel the same way .
I 'm not sure it could ever happen again . ''
