This is the first single to be released by American Celebutante Kim Kardashian .
She recruited an A-List team to help her with the track , enlisting consummate R&B songwriter The-Dream to pen the bass-heavy dance tune and famed director Hype Williams to helm the video .
A chap called Kanye West also makes a cameo appearance in the clip .
Half of the song 's proceeds are donated to a cancer foundation .
Kardashian explained this is , `` because The-Dream 's and one of my parents passed away from cancer .
It 's just all having fun - with a good cause . ''
Ironically -LRB- or maybe intentionally -RRB- , the song shares the same title as a 2006 dance chart-topping single by Kardashian 's friend and fellow socialite Paris Hilton .
Kardashian said on MTV talk show The Seven that she intended this to be the only record she will make .
She explained that she was nudged into recording the track by some of her music biz pals . ''
Basically , Ciara came to me and was like , ` You 've got to meet The-Dream , ' '' Kim said .
`` I was not into doing a song .
I thought , ` Everyone kind of tries that , and it does n't really work out so well . '
So I talked to friends like Kanye and a few of my other musical friends , like this is their life .
They gave me good advice .
They asked me what I do for fun , and I said , ' I go shopping , I hang out with friends . '
And they said , ` We go to the studio for fun .
Come have fun with us .
Do n't think too much about it . ' ''
Kardashian told MTV News about the song 's music video : `` Hype Williams directed the video .
It is so crazy , '' she said .
`` I mean his looks that he put me in -LSB- are crazy -RSB- .
He really had say in what he wanted , I guess , -LSB- for what -RSB- Kim ` the artist ' that I was playing in this role would look like , as opposed to the everyday glam Kim that you 're used to seeing .
So , it was really fun to play dress up and have all these other looks that I never really tried before . ''
The Entertainment Weekly critics preferred to turn this down .
They voted this as their worst single of 2011 !
