This was the lead off single off Womack 's first album for three and a half years Call Me Crazy .
AOL asked Womack how she came to choose this haunting song , written by Erin Enderlin and Shane McAnally .
The Country singer replied that she loved its melody and added : `` When I heard the demo , melodically and lyrically , I thought it could be classic Lee Ann Womack , meaning what people expect from me .
I thought when people heard it they would know immediately it was me singing .
And then with all that wrapped up with a really good Country lyric , it was a perfect way for me to come back again . ''
The song 's black and white music video was filmed in New York .
Womack explained why the clip was located in the Big Apple : `` I love New York , and I love taking country music to places where it 's not heard a lot .
I preach the gospel of George Jones and Bob Wills and Ray Price to my friends who are artists and producers in other genres .
So it was my idea to do this real traditional record and put it against the backdrop of New York . ''
Veteran producer Tony Brown -LRB- Reba McEntire , Brooks & Dunn -RRB- produced this song , along with the rest of the album .
Womack told Billboard magazine : `` I had wanted to work with Tony since I came to town I kind of knew what he would like and what he would gravitate toward and it 's a lot of the same things that I do . ''
Enderlin and McAnally explained to AOL the story behind this song .
Enderlin started off : `` Shane starts talking about an old flame that called him out of the blue .
Even though the infamous one 's name was removed from Shane 's phone , the number itself still stopped him in his tracks , like it was branded in his memory .
Taking in Shane 's story , I started playing the chords he was riffing on and out poured the first couple lines of the song .
It was amazing how easily the story came together .
Shane and I went back and forth trading lines and chords ... the song became almost like a zipper pulling our two creative minds together.I write a lot of songs , but it is still amazing to me how every so often the right combination of ideas , craft and creativity come together to make something so magical that it seems to have a life of it 's own and has the ability to move people , even if they have n't been in that specific situation .
I 've rarely experienced something more powerful than the connection that comes from a great song , and ` Last Call ' is one of those songs .
`` McAnally continued : `` I remember something Erin had said to me a few weeks before , about the practice of showing up every day at a scheduled time to write .
She said , ' I know that I wo n't write something great every day , but I just show up so that when God walks through the room , I will be there . '
On this particular day , God walked through the room and we were there.I think the zipper metaphor was a perfect way to describe the way it unfolded .
She would sing a line , and I would sing a line , and so on .
I do remember the moment I realized that something big was going on -- when she was trying to figure out the melody for the chorus and she sang the following ` dummy ' lyric : `` I bet you 're in a bar . ''
A ` dummy ' lyric is a reference to putting any words that come to mind together just to create a structure and a melody .
This ` dummy ' lyric was far from dumb !
I thought it was brilliant .
I actually was convinced that `` I bet you 're in a bar '' was the title of the song .
The hook , ` Last Call , ' later unveiled itself and the rest is country music history . ''
