This coming-of-age song finds Bowie reflecting on loss of innocence and the arrival of adult responsibilities .
`` Wave goodbye to Life without pain '' he croons over a monochromatic Berlin-era groove .
Producer Tony Visconti told NME : `` We used some techniques we used on -LRB- 1977 's -RRB- Low on this , so sound wise you might hear something familiar . ''
The video for the edited James Murphy mix of this song cost just $ 12.99 -- the price of the USB stick to download the finished clip .
Bowie shot and edited the entire video using his domestic camera and a pair of puppets from his archive in a darkened corridor of his Manhattan office .
His assistant , Jimmy King , manned the camera andt the singer 's friend , Coco Schwab , handled everything else from continuity to sandwiches .
The visual received its world première at the 2013 Barclaycard Mercury Prize ceremony .
Former LCD Soundsystem leader James Murphy has been listening to Bowie 's music since he was a child , and he finally got an opportunity to collaborate with his hero when he was asked to remix this song for the Thin White Duke 's The Next Day Extra album .
The end result , `` Love Is Lost -LRB- Hello Steve Reich Mix by James Murphy for the DFA -RRB- '' is a complete transformation in which Murphy wipes out the original 's juddering synths , and instead creates a slow-burn , slow-build odyssey that runs for ten minutes .
Murphy 's mix starts with a round of applause which , after 15 seconds , becomes a syncopated clapping rhythm .
It 's a nod to Steve Reich 's 1972 piece , `` Clapping Music , '' that is also referenced in the title .
The American avant-garde composer 's work consists entirely of two performers clapping .
Whilst premiering the remix via BBC 6music , Murphy said : `` Any remix I 've done I almost never use any of the original music .
The challenge for me is to create a new track that serves the vocal in a different way but does n't make the vocal seem pasted on .
It 's been many years since I 've done a remix , so no matter who it was for I would 've been stressed out . ''
Murphy directs his hero worship back to Bowie , by dropping in samples of his 1980 classic , `` Ashes To Ashes . ''
He told NME : `` The reference to ` Ashes To Ashes ' was my idea .
I 'm only realizing now that his record is so self-reverential .
I did n't think of that in the grand scheme .
I was just worried he 'd get angry . ''
Murphy also collaborated with Bowie around the same time when the British legend supplied backing vocals to the Arcade Fire track `` Reflektor , '' which the LCD Soundsystem mainman produced .
