This is a track from R&B group the Commodores 1977 self-titled album .
The Lionel Richie and Ronald LaPread composition is a wish for world happiness and the hope for a better place to magically `` zoom '' away to .
Commodores bass guitarist and trumpeter Ronald LaPread explained in the book Chicken Soup For the Soul : The Story Behind The Song the sad and poignant tale that inspired this tune : `` We were getting ready to record the self-titled album Commodores .
I was driving from my hometown of Tuskegee , Alabama with my wife , Cathy , riding next to me , going to gigs in Tennessee , somewhere in Kentucky , and somewhere in North Carolina , leading up to a Madison Square Garden show .
On the way to Nashville , she laid down in the back seat of the car , saying that her stomach hurt .
We got there , played the first gig and got back in the car right after the show to drive to Knoxville for another date .
Again Cathy laid down in the back seat with stomach pains .
I told her that we were gong to the doctor as soon as we got back .
That Monday we went to the hospital in Birmingham , where Cathy was from and her mom lived , and the doctor said that he wanted to do exploratory surgery .
It was scheduled for that Friday , the day before the Madison Square Garden concert .
The doctor said it would take 45 minutes so I planned to catch a plane to New York immediately after the procedure.We left our house in Tuskegee at 6AM for the two-hour ride to Birmingham for an 8:30 AM surgery .
At 9:30 , I was expecting her to come out of the operating room .
9:30 came and went ; 10:30 came and went ; at 11:30 she was still in there .
I missed two planes but was n't leaving .
About 12:10 PM the doctor came out and told me that she had massive tumors in her womb .
He gave her about two months to live .
She was 23 years old.I finally left at about 3PM for New York .
The plane had to circle for an hour and when I landed , one of our crew members met me and I got dressed in my stage uniform in the car .
We played that gig and another the following night and I left immediately to go get Cathy in Birmingham and take her back to Tuskegee .
When we got home , she went to bed.I sat down at the piano and started fiddling around .
Cathy got out of bed and came and sat down beside me .
She told me that there were nice changes but the melody should go up at a certain place .
We sat there for about an hour and worked out the music.The Commodores had a listening session soon after and I played them another song I 'd written , which they did n't like .
I happened to have the tape for this song on me , although it did n't have any words yet .
I played it and they asked what it was called .
I said , ` It 's like ... Zoom ' and the name stuck .
I played it for our producer , James Carmichael , and he said it was nice but it needed a middle .
He told me that -LRB- Lionel -RRB- Richie had a song with a middle and no beginning and he put us together to combine our songs.The group went into the studio before the words were done and we cut the track .
I took the cassette home to work on , but I could n't get Cathy out of my mind .
The first lines that came to me were : I may be just a foolish dreamerBut I do n't care'Cause I know my happiness is waiting out there somewhere.Richie then added : ZoomI 'd like to fly far away from hereBy then we were back in Los Angeles and Cathy was in the hospital there so I could go back and forth from the studio and spend time with her .
She was n't doing well .
I told Richie that I could n't focus on it so he finished the words and recorded the lead vocal .
He captured everything I was feeling .
It was very quiet in the studio when they played it for me .
When the song finished , everyone was crying .
They knew where it came from.We returned to Tuskegee and the Commodores were about to go to Europe on tour .
I told them I did n't want to leave and they should get a bass player to replace me during that time , but Cathy insisted that I go .
She said , `` I 'll be here when you get back .
`` The tour started in the UK , in London , and then we went to Glasgow .
We stayed in an old mansion that had been converted to a hotel .
The rooms were huge .
They had 12 ' ceilings and there were six windows all around the room with the bed in the center .
One of the windows looked out over a cemetery that was lit at night .
At about 2AM something woke me up .
The curtains were blowing as if wind was coming in but when I went to the windows to close them , I realized they were n't open .
There was a loud knock at the door and Lenny Guice , one of our crew members and a friend of mine who was very close to Cathy , was standing there .
He had the same view from the window in his room down the hall .
He looked shaken and said , ` What 's going on !? ' and described the same experience I had .
Then , suddenly , the lights in the cemetery went out .
Two minutes later the phone rang and it was Cathy 's mom telling me that Cathy was in a coma .
I asked her to put the phone next to Cathy 's ear and I told her I was on my way home and I 'd see her the next morning .
She woke up , or in her coma , she said , ` I 'll be waiting for you . '
I got on the Concorde and was in Birmingham , Alabama in two and a half hours .
I went to her mom 's house and Cathy somehow got out of bed and hugged and kissed me .
I put her back in bed and her mom had to give her a shot of morphine because she was in a lot of pain .
She said , ` I 'm sorry we did n't have any kids . '
I responded by saying , ` Do n't worry , we 'll do that later . '
and she said , ' I do n't think so ' as she took her last breath . ''
The song should not be confused with an earlier Motown track composed by Norman Whitfield and recorded by The Temptations , also titled `` Zoom . ''
Another `` Zoom '' song this sometimes gets mixed up with is R&B act Fat Larry Band 's 1982 UK # 2 hit , which was penned by Len Barry and Bobby Eli .
Surprisingly , this classic tune was never released as a single in the US .
In the UK the song was a double A-sided single along with `` Too Hot To Trot , '' which peaked at # 38 .
