Muse unveiled this track as part of an international treasure hunt in which the band hid USB sticks containing portions of the song in seven cities .
Following the conclusion of the treasure hunt on July 21 , 2009 , the song was made available as a free digital download online complete with the piano sonata `` Collateral Damage , '' which is tagged on at the end .
Bellamy told MTV News : '' -LSB- That -RSB- was probably the first song anyone heard off our new album .
It 's a song about the grandiose , megalomaniacal geo-strategy of foreign-policy advisors who talk about Eurasia and the world as some kind of chessboard to play games on .
So the track on the first part is really over-the-top , trying to capture that megalomaniac vibe . ''
He added : `` The track 's got lots of different influences on there , Middle Eastern -LSB- music -RSB- , '70s prog music , some big choir parts on there ... it 's one of my favorite songs on the album . ''
Most of The Resistance 's lyrical content is serious stuff .
However scattered about there some funny , tongue-in cheek bits such as the layered `` I want to ride my bicycle '' vocals in this song 's bridge .
Muse drummer Dominic Howard told the NME : `` We thought that was too good to take out , so we left it . ''
In a pre-release interview , singer/guitarist Matt Bellamy revealed to Mojo magazine August 2009 that the inspiration for this song came from a book called The Grand Chessboard by Polish-born advisor to Jimmy Carter , Zbeigniew Brzezinski .
Bellamy explained that `` Brzezinski has the viewpoint that the Eurasian landmass , i.e. Europe , Asia and the Middle East , needs to be controlled by America to secure the oil supply .
He talks very matter-of-factly about seeing the world as a chessboard .
That , combined with the obvious Orwellian reference to the state of Europe from 1984 , inspire the words on that song . ''
Bellamy writes all of Muse 's lyrics .
Bassist Chris Wolstenholme told Q magazine October 2009 : that he had no idea what this song was about until he stepped into a studio booth to record backing vocals .
`` It 's Matt 's business , '' he said .
`` As long as he 's not offending anyone . ''
Much of The Resistance , including this song .
was influenced by the band 's tour of South America , South Africa and the Middle East in 2008 .
Bellamy told Billboard magazine : `` I remember listening to music I 'd never heard before in Dubai-stuff that certainly had an effect on songs like ` Eurasia , ' and going to tango bars in Brazil that gave us musical ideas that would n't have happened if we did n't do that tour . ''
