This is the first song on the first Van Halen album .
It starts with a backwards blare of car horns , which was made by a contraption Eddie Van Halen put together using a bunch of horns , a car battery , and a footswitch .
They used to use it when they played at clubs .
Gene Simmons had the idea for the car horns at the beginning .
He had the band do this on the 1977 `` House Of Pain '' demo he produced for them .
The song contains many of the things Van Halen became famous for - David Lee Roth 's squeal , Eddie 's guitar solo , and Michael Anthony 's backup vocals .
This was easy for the band to record because they did not use many studio tricks .
They pretty much recorded what they had been playing live for years .
Later Van Halen albums became much more complicated .
This gets constant play on Classic Rock radio .
It was not played a lot when it first came out because nobody had heard of Van Halen , so it was never burned out .
This bears a strong resemblance to Pink Floyd 's similarly titled song `` Run Like Hell , '' particularly in the intro -LRB- one note on the bass played over and over interrupted by a guitar with echo -RRB- .
Both songs were released within a year of each other , so it is probably just a coincidence .
-LRB- thanks , Eric - Suffern , NY -RRB- Van Halen included this song on a demo Gene Simmons produced for them in 1977 .
After seeing them in concert , Simmons flew the band to New York , bought them clothes , and set up a recording session .
They did n't get a record deal out of it , but gained valuable experience .
At one point , David Lee Roth says , `` Goddamn it lady , you know I ai n't lyin ' too ya , I 'm gon na tell you one time . ''
Roth was never eloquent , but he was occasionally introspective -LRB- see `` Hang 'Em High '' -RRB- , and even poetic -LRB- see `` Secrets '' -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , Doug - Appleton , WI , for above 2 -RRB- Eddie 's guitar is on the cover of the album .
He pieced it together using parts of different guitars until he got the sound and feel he wanted .
It is striped black and white on the album , but Eddie later painted it red .
Van Halen opened concerts for Journey and Black Sabbath after releasing this album , helping it sell over 5 million copies as more people found out about them .
Adam Sandler pretends to play this with a Devil Horned blade he uses as a guitar at the beginning of the 2001 movie Little Nicky .
-LRB- thanks , Scott Baddwin - edmonton , Canada -RRB- The was used in the 2000 movie Ready To Rumble .
