Jackie Brown ... Oh , wait , we have to talk about the song first ... `` Did n't I -LRB- blow your mind this time -RRB- '' is the second-highest-charting hit by R&B / Soul sensations The Delfonics , on their third studio album which happens to be their self-titled one .
Like many of their hits on the Philly Groove label , it 's a slow , passionate love song .
It was written by producer Thom Bell and founding frontman William Hart.It 's also been covered extensively , by the likes of Aretha Franklin , Regina Belle , Jackie Jackson , Millie Jackson , The Trammps , Maxine Nightingale , Patti LaBelle , and ... a pop version by New Kids on the Block , on their self-titled debut album .
Bet you did n't see that coming , did you ?
OK , now , the Quentin Tarantino film Jackie Brown not only included the song in its soundtrack , but made such extensive use of it that it practically becomes a plot device .
-LSB- PLOT SPOILERS :] First , the bail bondsman character Max Cherry -LRB- Robert Forster -RRB- is having coffee at Jackie 's -LRB- Pam Grier -RRB- when she puts the record on and grooves to this song - Brown and Cherry have a conversation about how she never got into `` the whole CD revolution . ''
Next , we see Max Cherry at a record store in the Del Amo mall buying the Delfonics album and then driving around in the car listening to it .
We 're supposed to get the idea that this middle-aged white man suddenly listening to the Delfonics indicates his growing infatuation with her .
Finally towards the end , a highly agitated Ordell Robbie -LRB- Samuel L. Jackson -RRB- is riding with Max in the car on his way to what he thinks will be the return of his money , but he 's actually getting set up .
Whoops , Max left the Delfonics in the radio , and Ordell has a moment of suspicion when he remarks that he did n't know Max liked the Delfonics - it suggests that Max and Jackie might have become quite close and thus could have hatched a conspiracy behind his back.It also bears mentioning that Jackie Brown seems to have become the least-popular Quentin Tarantino film among his fans .
It has more to do with timing - it came out right after Pulp Fiction and is a much slower-paced film -LRB- and based on the Elmore Leonard novel Rum Punch -RRB- , and how do you follow an act like that ?
Nevertheless , this was Tarantino 's love letter to the '70s and Super Fly-type exploitation flicks .
If people let it be its own story , it is quite well-done .
Thom Bell , who produced for the Delfonics , also produced for The Stylistics , Chubby Checker , and Elton John .
But his main focus was the `` Philly sound , '' which is soul music characterized by funk influences and lush instrumental arrangements .
`` Did n't I -LRB- blow your mind this time -RRB- '' is the perfect , textbook example of Philadelphia Soul .
