Lenny Kravitz is the son of a black actress , Roxie Roker , and a white television producer , Sy Kravitz .
The title track of his ninth studio album is an autobiographical look back at his upbringing in New York .
`` It 's my life , '' he told Billboard magazine .
`` I grew up in an environment where I was in between a so-called black and white world .
My life has always been about contrasts , and it reflects on not only my life and what I 've gone through with my parents and what I saw growing up , but also where we are now as far as this country , and accepting these kind of changes where we now have an African-American president . ''
`` All the records are personal , '' he added , `` so I ca n't say this one is more personal than the others , but I think it tells more of my story .
I think it 'll give people a little more insight into me and my life . ''
The album cover is a picture of Kravitz as a child .
He told Spinner : `` I was probably 7 years old in that picture .
It was taken in my schoolyard .
I was looking through old photos and trying to figure out my album cover -- I was n't looking for my album cover , I was going to take a picture and saw that photo and it just popped out . ''
A theme that keeps cropping up throughout Black and White America is the idea of unity .
Kravitz explained to MTV News : `` The inspiration came from a documentary that I was watching .
It was about a group of Americans , I 'm sure somewhere tucked away , and they were saying they were disgusted by what America had become , they were disgusted that there was an African-American commander in chief ; they 're not for racial equality , they would like America to be back to the way it was 100 years ago and , basically , they would do anything it took to make sure that their idea of America was restored , down to assassination , etc. .
And it was with such hatred and , obviously , we know that racism exists but somehow they threw me for a loop .
I was like , Really ?
For real ?
So the chorus of the song , I was just saying to them , This is what 's happening , you need to know what time it is .
It 's how I was raised ; I grew up between two cultures at a pivotal time after the civil rights movement , and -LSB- it 's -RSB- the story of my parents , and what they went through .
It 's very natural for me to write about that sort of thing . ''
