A duet with Alison Krauss , this song is about a man and a woman who were married ; he went to war and when he came back she was with another man .
He kills himself , drinking himself to death , leaving a note to say that he still loves her .
In the next verse the woman is mourning his loss .
She thinks it 's her fault and kills herself as well , drinking herself to death , holding his picture .
-LRB- thanks , Melissa - Edmonton , Canada -RRB- Alison Krauss also played the viola on the track .
Paisley talked about the song in 2013 with Entertainment Weekly : `` It 's an angelic , ghostly bluegrass ballad , really a tragedy , and I think when I get to heaven , if the angels do n't sound like Alison Krauss , we have been cheated .
What 's interesting is it was never expected to be a single .
And it 's a good example of how I was slowly able to expand by comfort zone , like getting away with ` I 'm Gon na Miss Her ' and ` Celebrity ' - songs that were just not what you would have expected from the guy that did Who Needs Pictures . ''
This acoustic ballad was the 2005 CMA Song of the Year .
The song was written by Bill Anderson and Jon Randall and was inspired by a difficult time that Randall was going through including a divorce from country star Lorrie Morgan .
Anderson told AOL 's The Boot the story behind the song : `` Jon Randall and I wrote the song together .
Jon was going through some pretty rough times back then .
He had gotten a divorce and lost his writing deal and his record deal all within just a day or two of each other .
And he went over to a friend 's house and crashed for a couple of weeks .
When he decided to sober up and come back and join the living again , he apologized to his friend .
He said , ` Man , I 'm sorry for the way I 've acted the last couple of weeks . '
And his friend said to him , ` That 's alright Jon , I 've put the bottle to my head and pulled the trigger a few times in my life . '
So when Jon came to the writing session , that was fresh on his mind .
I went to the writing session with the idea to write a song called , ` Midnight Cigarette . '
Basically that turned out to be the first line of ` Whiskey Lullaby ' : ` She put him out like the burnin ' end of a midnight cigarette .
` That was what I wanted to write the whole song about .
Jon loved that line so we wrote it down and then he said , `` Here 's a line here : ` He put that bottle to his head and pulled the trigger . ' ''
I said , ` Well , let 's forget about the ` Midnight Cigarette . '
Man , you 've got the perfect idea for the song there . '
And it just kind of flowed -LSB- from -RSB- there . ''
