This is the title track from the third studio album from American alternative metal band Stone Sour .
Vocalist Corey Taylor founded the band in 1992 , five years before he joined heavy metal outfit Slipknot , together with former drummer Joel Ekman .
The set up for Audio Secrecy was Taylor , guitarists James Root and Josh Rand , bassist Shawn Economaki and drummer Roy Mayorga .
The album was recorded and produced by the band and producer Nick Raskulinecz -LRB- Foo Fighters , Alice In Chains , Deftones -RRB- at Blackbird Studios in Nashville during the destructive storms and devastating floods that hit the historic heart of Music City .
Corey Taylor explained the album title to Spin magazine : `` I love when a phrase has a few different meanings , and I was trying to find play on words for ` idiosyncrasy . '
Idiosyncrasies are those little things that differentiate us , that make us individuals .
But at the same time they tie us together .
I hit on ` audio secrecy ' and immediately realized that it can mean something completely different to people .
It can mean something dark or practical , light or funny .
After thinking about it for a while , I realized it 's a descriptive way of talking about music .
Consider classic songs like ` Master of Puppets ' by Metallica or ` These Arms of Mine ' by Otis Redding .
They 're drastically different songs , yet both epic songs .
Why do they sound the way they do ?
Why do people gravitate towards them ?
To me it 's about the undertones or the overtones , the details -- the way it was recorded , the temperature in the room , the instruments they used , the performance , the mixing and the mastering .
It all comes down to these little elements .
That , to me , is audio secrecy .
That 's what makes one song killer and one song filler .
What makes one song live forever and the other one delegated to a bargain bin . ''
Taylor told Spin magazine about Audio Secrecy 's cover art .
`` We wanted to play with the idea of a secret society , like Skull and Bones or Illuminati , and tie in little clues or secret folds on the cover so it becomes something different all together .
The way we looked at it was , ` What if this is the last album to ever get released by a band ?
What would you want to do with it ? '
Because in this era of zip drives and memory sticks , there 's no guarantee you 'll be able to release another physical album .
We really wanted to make a statement with it .
I can remember waiting in line to buy Iron Maiden and Metallica tapes and I would study the liner notes .
I would read the names of the people they thanked or the little anecdotes and just wonder what they were thinking when they added that .
I want to keep that going .
I refuse to think that the record industry is dead because I 've signed enough copies of my albums to know that people still buy them . ''
Taylor told Kerrang !
about this instrumental : `` I had an idea for an intro , which I wanted to be dark , melodic and then build into the first song .
I wanted it to build tension .
I wanted it to build tension .
I wanted it to feel as though you were climbing a hill to reach the summit . ''
Audio Secrecy is the first Stone Sour album not to have a Parental Advisory Sticker .
Slipknot 's third Album , Vol .
3 : The Subliminal Verses was also their first not to have a Parental Advisory Sticker .
