In February 1995 Manic Street Preacher rhythm guitarist and principal lyric writer Richey Edwards went missing .
A fortnight later his Vauxhall Cavalier was found abandoned near the Severn Bridge on the English/Welsh border .
Edwards has not been since and he was officially declared dead in November 2008 .
In the weeks leading up to his disappearance , Edwards gave personal items to his bandmates .
To bassist Nicky Wire , he gave a ring-bound folder with a picture of Bugs Bunny and the word `` opulence '' scrawled on the front .
Inside were various artwork , photos , tracts from various writers , and the lyrics to around 30 or so potential songs .
The Welsh band decided to write songs around Edwards ' lyrics for their ninth studio album Journal For Plague Lovers and recorded it in Wales ' Rockfield Studios during the latter part of 2008 .
Vocalist James Dean Bradfield told The Guardian May 8 , 2009 why they finally decided to publish Edwards ' lost lyrics : `` Two or three times a year , I 'd get them out and look at them , and every time it was always the same reaction : I 'd always imagine putting music to them , then I 'd get a bit scared and put them back in a drawer .
But this time I 'd looked at them and it was the first time I could n't stop turning the pages and I was getting ideas and stuff .
Quoting the film The Contender , it was an idea whose time had come .
I said , ` By the way , I really want to try and do the Richey lyrics . ' ''
Edwards checked himself into the Priory shortly after the 1994 release of The Holy Bible to be treated for a combination of self-harm , heavy drinking and anorexia that he was battling .
This song refers to the treatment he received .
Bradfield told the NME May 16 , 2009 : `` I think it talks about when the malady does n't fit the cure .
And how the cure sometimes homogenises the person .
Like , ` PG certificate , all cuts unfocused ' ... the cure will sometimes bring a bland focus to what is a real problem . ''
Wire added : `` Because of course , The Priory is a mixture of all pseudo-God and religious b -- locks and doctors trying to cure you .
He quickly realized that the cure means having to destroy the entire entity that you are .
And I do n't think he 's prepared to do that for the sake of survival . ''
