The first single from American pop band Cobra Starship 's fourth album , Night Shades , was released on May 10 , 2011 and features Sabi .
The singer/actress turned rapper first came to many people 's attention after Britney Spears gave her a spot on her track -LRB- Drop Dead -RRB- Beautiful . ''
Saporta explained to MTV News the concept of the music video : `` It 's a song about a guy and a girl , and the concept is , at the beginning of the video , I find one of Sabi 's photos , and she 's feeling the same way that I 'm feeling , which is incomplete without each other , '' he said .
`` We 're sharing feelings , and that 's what I realize , so I 'm like , ` Wow , I want to find this girl . '
So I look all over the world for her , and our world is the nightclub .
The video is about the photo booth .
It 's just not any photo booth ; it 's a photo booth that tells you how you 're really feeling .
That 's the main star of the video .
`` The video features cameos from Robin Williams , his daughter , Zelda and Just Jared blogger Jared Eng .
This was Cobra 's second song with a female guest to chart on the Hot 100 .
Their 2009 debut hit , `` Good Girls Go Bad , '' featured the vocals of Leighton Meester .
The song finds Gabe Saporta singing of looking for his soul mate .
`` Obviously , some of my personal drama was about feeling alone , and feeling like I was searching the world for the right person , '' said the frontman to MTV News .
`` And one of the things we want for this song and this record -- even though it has personal stuff in it -- is to be something everyone can relate to , and I think that the concept of people trying to find the right person is something that 's universal . ''
Cobra Starship achieved their first chart topper when this song debuted at # 1 on the New Zealand singles chart .
Speaking to Artist Direct , band members Alex Suarez and Ryland Blackinton revealed the video involved a last minute swapping of treatments .
The duo said , `` Our video guy at Atlantic came up with the idea while drunk on his birthday . ''
He called the band at a late , inebriated hour and told them he wanted to change things .
The band said , `` We had a whole different treatment and he called an audible at 2 AM .
We had a whole different idea and a whole other treatment planned . ''
