This is the first single to be taken from Move , the tenth studio album and fourteenth overall release from American Christian rock band Third Day .
The song features the veteran gospel outfit , The Blind Boys of Alabama .
Bassist Tai Anderson told the story of the song in an interview with NewReleaseTuesday : `` We were out on the Winter Jam tour last year , and basically we had the idea -LSB- that -RSB- how to serve our families while on tour was to use the time on the road to look for a place to write songs and record demos for the new album .
What started the process of writing this song , which we co-wrote with Bo and Bear Rinehart of Needtobreathe , started by getting together with the guys for a barbecue .
We got together in their home studio and had a jam session that went with Mac 's idea of a song based on the idea of ` lift up your head ' from the Psalms .
We have been really inspired by Needtobreathe 's abandon musically and this song ended up really setting the tone for the record .
By working with another ` southern ' rock band from South Carolina , we got to show our Georgia roots musically with a ` gospel ' sound .
We wanted this album to have a southern accent musically . ''
Lead vocalist Mac Powell explained the song 's meaning : `` The country is going through hard times , and there are doubts and insecurity .
The message -LSB- of ` Lift Up Your Face ' -RSB- is our message of encouragement -- not just to listeners though -- to us as well .
It 's a message we all need to hear and I think that really sums up a lot of what we were going for with this record . ''
Anderson discussed the song 's message with NewReleaseTuesday : `` The big message of the song is ` salvation is calling . '
There is power for everyone .
Whether you 've put all of your trust in Jesus or not , salvation is a theme on the whole album .
All that really matters is where we stand with Christ .
At the end of our lives , all of our album sales and awards will mean nothing .
All that really matters is where we stand with Jesus .
When I 'm asked when I got saved , I answer 8:30 this morning .
I think it 's important to make that commitment daily and remember that I 'm a sinner and I need to lift up my face to God , repent and choose Him as my Savior . ''
