This melancholy ballad is the second single from American recording artist Chris Brown 's third studio album , Grafitti .
The song 's music video features R&B singer and model Cassie .
It was directed by Joseph Kahn , who also worked with Brown on the `` Forever '' and `` I Can Transform Ya '' clips .
The parallel to the singer 's relationship with Rihanna is hard to dismiss , and Kahn admitted that between this video and the one for `` I Can Transform Ya , '' ' `` Crawl ' is my favorite one , because - gosh , I 'm going to let you in on this - 'cause it 's probably his most personal thing he 's ever done .
I mean , everything that 's happened to him in the year , I think this is going to be his big statement , in terms of what he 's feeling and what he 's living through right now . ''
The song features Brown pensively singing about a relationship that has slipped out of his hands , he then calls for a reconciliation .
Some reviewers have commented on the lyrical parallels to the singer 's situation with his ex-girlfriend Rihanna .
After their infamous altercation in early 2009 , the pair briefly reunited , however , following a court order requiring Brown to stay away from Rihanna , they split .
Brown told MTV News that the song is n't just about his own relationships but has more of a universal message .
He explained : `` When I heard the whole concept and everything I was like , ` Yo , this is crazy . '
So being able to express the feelings , it was like , probably one of the best -LSB- records I 've done . -RSB-
But it was more than me trying to do a record that meant crawl to love , crawl back to love .
Meaning whether it 's from your negative situations , whether it 's from any problems you 've dealt with , like anybody 's situation .
Mine being my personal situation with shorty , but for anybody , for being inspired as far it being the war or a death in the family , whether it 's anything , anybody just crawl back to love .
'Cause love conquers everything .
Love , at the end of the day , makes everybody happy . ''
