Fogerty wrote this song about the similarities between the Vietnam War and the war in Iraq .
He believed the US government was making the same mistakes again .
He recalled to American Songwriter magazine : '' 'D éjà Vu -LRB- All Over Again -RRB- ' I wrote in ' 04 , and I 'd been thinking about the sentiment for probably a year .
In some sense , I 'd been thinking about it for 40 years .
When the Vietnam War officially ended , I was driving and listening to the radio , and they said , ` America has declared that we are withdrawing from Vietnam . '
I looked at the radio and said , `` Let 's make damn sure we never do something that stupid again . ''
`` Years later , when George W 's government decided we were gon na invade Iraq , I 'm shaking my head and going , ` No , no , no , no , no , ' '' Fogerty added .
`` The little -LSB- alarms -RSB- in my head are going back to the Vietnam War , so I gave it a narrative , a cultural and political narrative . ''
`` I had a separate residence that was my songwriting place , and one day I had gone there to write a swamp-rock song , an escapist thing , '' he continued .
`` And I was thinking about what was going on in America .
We had n't entered Iraq yet .
It was just saber-rattling .
As I walked up to the door , this melody entered my head .
This sound just grabbed me .
It was tapping me and saying , ` Come with me . '
What I heard was -LSB- sings -RSB- , ` Did you hear 'em talking about it on the radio ?
` And I heard that terrible , mournful sound that tugs at your heartstrings .
I went right to my acoustic guitar .
Something was pulling me , and it was so overwhelmingly sad .
I sensed later it was a mother 's mournful cry for her child .
I started to write words that were just coming out of the sky .
I did n't know what I was writing about until I wrote It 's déjà vu all over again .
And then I thought , ` My God , is that what this is about ? '
I was writing about the war that was coming and the unnecessary deaths that were gon na happen all over again .
I was overcome with feeling that emotion .
I guess I was guided there .
I did not create that song .
It was handed to me .
Probably the only time that 's ever happened . ''
