Shaolin vs. Wu-Tang was initially planned to be a Wu-Tang Clan group album , without production from the de-facto leader of the group , RZA .
Raekwon later revealed that it would instead be his fifth studio album , again without any contributions from RZA .
In regards to this decision , Raekwon clarified in an interview with Vibe magazine : `` RZA does n't have to be on every album .
I wanted to give some other producers a chance .
It 's not about beef . ''
The album was inspired by the 1981 Gordon Liu film Shaolin and Wu Tang , about a rivalry between two schools of ancient martial arts . ''
-LSB- The film is about -RSB- basically two schools fighting with one another , '' Raekwon explained to MTV News .
`` But they all come from the same school , and it was an outsider who actually tried to get the Shaolin style and the Wu-Tang style and have them go at one another .
On this album , it 's the same thing : It 's two schools and , you know , I 'm part of that school .
I 'm Shaolin but at the same time , I 'm Wu-Tang .
So really , it 's ego versus discipline , dealing in my mind and everything that I been through , and dealing with the crew . ''
Shaolin is the street name in rap circles of Staten Island , the New York City borough that Raekwon hails from .
He explained the album title to Entertainment Weekly : `` It 's not nothing derogatory towards Wu .
It 's just that Shaolin is the place , Wu-Tang is the crew that came from that place .
It 's like me just going back to my history of being an emcee first , before I actually became part of Wu-Tang .
I always give RZA that support as far as saying he brought Wu-Tang to the table .
It was his philosophy .
He picked certain dudes to be part of this group , and he said , ` This is what it 's going to be called ' .
Before that , I was on the block .
I was living in Shaolin .
So this album just shows the street side of me , challenging the great side of Wu-Tang .
Which is almost like how T.I. did T.I. vs. T.I.P. . ''
This song is the title track and first official single from the album .
It was released on January 11 , 2011 .
