Many of the lyrics on American indie pop band Fun 's second album Some Nights are about frontman Nate Ruess ' family .
For instance , on this track he sings : `` My heart is breaking for my sister and the con that she called love , but when I look into my nephew 's eyes , man you would n't believe the most amazing things that can come from some terrible nights . ''
The singer explained to Mesfin Fekadu of The Associated Press : `` I 'm always thinking about , ` Who am I and why did I do something like that ? '
And I think then it harkens back to my family , and I have such a strong tie to them and it 's always therapeutic to sing about them . ''
Fun named their album after this track as they feel it best represents not only their entire record , but also where they 're at as a band .
`` I think that the song ` Some Nights ' just kind of sums up who we are as a band , and while it 's über-personal , I think it gives people a lot of stuff to relate to .
It 's not a love song ; it 's a song about being an underdog and trying to figure out where you fall into that situation , '' Ruess told MTV News .
Ruess drew on Paul Simon for the musical part of the song .
`` I was thinking about Graceland , the Paul Simon album , for some reason , '' he told Billboard .
`` I had the chorus for the song and I did n't know what I was going to do with the verse , and I remember writing down , ` This will be the best song you 've ever written ' and was like , ` Alright .
I guess I kind of have to challenge myself ... ' As soon as I felt it was an entire song I showed it to the guys and they were just like , ` We got it , let 's go , ' which was really exciting .
That was the case for the entire album , too ; I never had to explain myself .
But -LRB- ` Some Nights ' -RRB- was the first song that really happened for , and it kind of showed me that we were moving as one for the whole album . ''
The song expresses the anguish of a young man who is a long way from home , as he lies in bed at night thinking of his family members .
Producer Jeff Bhasker said of Nate Ruess ' songwriting to the New York Times : `` He can tackle these really dark subjects and put this pop melody to it . ''
While writing for their second long player , the band were listening to Kanye West 's My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy album .
So influenced were they by its sound and scope , they hired that record 's co-producer Jeff Bhasker to produce Some Nights .
Ruess came up with the title before he wrote the song .
He recalled to Billboard magazine : `` I think we were somewhere in Scotland , touring , and I told the guys , ` Hey , check it out .
I want to call the album ` Some Nights . '
I had no idea where that came from , but they were like , ` That is a fantastic name for an album ! '
So I had to start figuring out what that meant for me and write a song about it .
`` Ruess added that he settled into a lyrical idea about `` just being someone different on any given night . ''
The Civil War inspired music video was directed by Anthony Mandler and features actual Civil War re-enactors .
The weather was very much a factor during the shoot .
`` We look like we 're having a grand old time and pounding away at the song , but those takes were few and far between this horrible lightning , crazy monsoon storm , '' multi-instrumentalist Jack Antonoff explained to MTV News .
`` So , we 're basically in a big field - I guess technically on somewhat of a mountain in upstate New York - during a lightning storm , which arguably could be the worst scenario you could possibly be in a lightning storm . ''
He took a pause , concluding , `` I think in a weird way it added to the intensity of the video .
Let 's go on record saying it was life or death . ''
This was especially successful Down Under reaching # 1 in New Zealand and Australia .
It also topped the charts in Israel .
