The title track of American Pop-Rock singer Kelly Clarkson 's fifth studio album fits in with many of the powerhouse singer 's previous empowerment-themed , Miss Independent tunes .
We hear the songstress confidently tell her former beau , `` You heard that I was starting over with someone / They told you I was moving on , over you / You think I 'd come / I 'd come back swinging / You tried to break me / But you see what does n't kill you makes you stronger . ''
AOL Music asked Clarkson why she recorded so many kiss-off songs ?
She replied : `` It 's not just guys .
I just like telling people off if I do n't like them .
Not in a mean way .
I 'm just like my mother ; I have no filter .
I like that !
I want people around me like that .
There 's going to be so much miscommunication if you do n't say what you think and say what you feel .
Life would be a lot easier if everyone did that . ''
The song was quick to become became a drag anthem .
Clarkson told the Australian gay website SameSame.com.au : `` I 'm not even a drag diva but I love that song !
It 's one of my favourite ones I 've ever recorded .
I love that it has the beat , but it 's also very pop rock with guitars and such a great message .
Sometimes when it 's an anthem it 's throwaway lyrics , but they 're great lyrics and they 're so inspiring .
Sometimes when you 're having a crap day , you just wan na listen to something that makes you feel like you can move a mountain , and I feel like that when I listen to that song . ''
Clarkson was featured singing this song in a Toyota commercial for a 2102 Camry .
She was joined in the ad by sportscaster Chris Berman , Inside the Actors Studio 's James Lipton and TV chef Andrew Zimmern .
This song fuses elements of Pop , Rock , and Dance to create a wonderfully catchy crossover hit for Kelly Clarkson .
The tune starts with a pulsing bass synth coupled with some atmospheric keyboard sounds in the background .
After eight seconds , Clarkson 's vocals are introduced into the mix , along with a pounding kick drum and hi-hat cymbal .
Everything becomes more intense during the pre-chorus when the electric guitars sneak in and Clarkson preludes her chorus with the line `` What does n't kill you makes you ... '' From there , the song kicks into a punchy , sing-along chorus with the danceable beat , guitars , synths , and vocals all turned up in the mix .
Another verse and chorus follow , but a notable change occurs during the bridge .
The song switches to minor chords and fuzzy keyboard tones before a transition into the final verse .
This contrast of light and dark melodies prepares the listener for one last energizing chorus where Clarkson re-emphasizes the meaning of the song .
The upbeat nature of the beat combined with Clarkson 's ability to deliver positive , soulful , and inspiring lyrics make `` Stronger -LRB- What Does n't Kill You -RRB- '' and powerful crossover hit .
The song was written by Jörgen Elofsson , Ali Tamposi , David Gamson in September 2010 at the latter 's studio in Long Beach .
Tamposi was in a really bad mood as a friend had told her they 'd seen him out with another girl and he was n't answering her calls .
The young songsmith had been up all night with her mom being hysterical and did n't want to do the session .
She recalled to American Songwriter : `` I was driving to the session and telling my mom , ` I 'm turning around , I ca n't do it , I ca n't do it , I ca n't do it !
I need to go , I need to go ! '
then , my Mom said , ` Ali , what does n't kill you is going to make you stronger and its not going to kill you . ' ''
Tamposi typed it into her notes , the whole time thinking to herself , `` Ugh , this is cheesy , Jorgen is not gon na like it .
`` When Tamposi got to the studio Gamson started playing some chords and Elofsson asked her `` What 's your concept ? ' ''
After a few suggestions were turned down , she said , '' ` What does n't kill you makes you stronger ? '
and Jorgen 's all , ` THAT 'S IT . ' ''
They wrote the song , Tamposi left the session Eloffson cut the demo , and as her head was in another place , she did n't think anything more about until , `` two or three months later I get this email saying , ` what does n't kill you ' is a freaking smash ! ''
Tamposi told American Songwriter how one of the lyrics was changed from the demo .
She said : `` The first lyric was originally ` you know the bed feels warmer sleeping here alone/And my days are brighter not staring at the phone . '
Kelly came in and wanted to change a few lyrics and stuff so that was the one particular line that she wrote : ` you know I dream in color/and do the things I want . '
Which I think is a better line , but we were going back and forth with the label , and the label was n't sure so they had me write another line .
And I said , Friday nights are better than dancing on my own or whatever it is .
Then Kelly cut both lines , and they finally decided that the ` dreaming in color ' was a better line .
So that was one particular thing . ''
For a reason that we are unable to ascertain the song 's single version is titled slightly differently to the album track .
It goes by the name of `` Stronger -LRB- What Does n't Kill You -RRB- . ''
Speaking with The Associated Press , Clarkson said she is proud that the single 's theme of self-empowerment has inspired others to overcome obstacles .
`` I knew from the moment I heard it that it was going to be huge , '' she revealed .
`` I 've heard everything from ' I got out of an abusive relationship ' to ` I 'm surviving cancer ' ... and I think everyone in the world needs that type of song - something that makes you feel empowered . ''
Speaking to MTV News prior to the song 's release , Clarkson said the inspiring dance anthem reminded her of one of her own all-time favorites .
`` That 'll be the one -LSB- that 's -RSB- kinda like ` Since U Be Gone , ' -LSB- with -RSB- people jumping up and down to -LSB- it -RSB- , and it 's just kind of really inspiring , so I ca n't wait to perform that one , '' she said .
The song was inspired by the Friedrich Nietzsche quotation , `` That which does not kill us makes us stronger . ''
Despite many of his ancestors having been Protestant clergyman , German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche -LRB- 1844-1900 -RRB- regarded himself as a prophet of the death of God and spokesman for the liberated man .
All values and morals based on Christian thought , he claimed , must be reappraised and if necessary thrown out.The German philosopher was a music enthusiast and even composed some pieces himself .
He once wrote in Twilight of the Idols : `` What trifles constitute happiness !
The sound of a bagpipe .
Without music life would be a mistake !
The German even imagines God as a songster.Nietzsche was once a friend of Richard Wagner and his writing was influenced by the German composer 's music .
He lent his name to the formation of Wagner societies throughout Germany to raise money to build the Wagner opera house at Bayreuth .
Later there was a deep enmity between the two Germans and Nietzsche claimed `` Wagner 's art is diseased : he has made music sick .
`` Nietzsche 's working life ended with a mental collapse after seeing a cab horse being ill-treated by its driver .
He flung his arms round the animal 's neck , burst into tears and fell unconscious to the ground .
The 44-year-old secular prophet was taken back to his room and spent the last ten years of his life insane in the care of his sister Elisabeth .
Although largely overlooked during his working life , by the time of his death , Nietzsche was beginning to receive recognition as a significant figure in philosophy .
Clarkson told MTV News why she chose to name the album Stronger .
`` There were a few different titles that were going around and I think the reason why we came up with Stronger was just because every song was about empowerment and almost like overcoming stuff , '' she explained .
`` So , even if it was a bad situation and a sad song , it was about overcoming that .
So by the end of the song , it 's kind of more inspiration than sad .
So I think that 's why -LSB- we named it that -RSB- , and I think after 10 years of doing it you feel a little stronger personally and musically .
People know you better .
It 's just easier , I think . ''
This song climbed from # 8 to # 2 on the Hot 100 in the same week that Clarkson sung `` The Star Spangled Banner '' at Super Bowl XLVI .
In doing so , the singer achieved the highest chart position of any artist during the week of a Super Bowl anthem performance .
She overtook Beyoncé , who sang the national anthem for Super Bowl XXXVIII on Feb. 7 , 2004 , while her hit '' `` Me , Myself And I '' was at # 5 .
The following week the song climbed to # 1 earning Clarkson her third chart-topper .
Her previous two ?
They were her Idol coronation song `` A Moment Like This , '' which reached the peak position in 2002 then `` My Life Would Suck Without You '' reached the summit seven years later .
When this took over as # 1 on the Dance/Club Play Songs chart , Clarkson became the first artist ever to have topped the Hot 100 and each of Billboard 's Dance/Club Play Songs , Country Songs , Adult Contemporary and Adult Pop Songs tallies .
So how did the song end up being cut by Clarkson ?
After Eloffson cut a demo , he got a session singer in to record it .
Tamposi 's manager Tom Maffei sent that version to Jeff Aldrich , who was Kelly Clarkson 's A&R at the time .
He felt it had potential but needed an edgier production .
So one of Maffei 's other producers redid the demo , which Aldrich approved and got Greg Kurstin in to produce .
In 2011 the songwriters got word that Clarkson loved the song , and she cut it the following month .
Tamposi recalled to American Songwriter : `` I went in and helped with cutting her vocals with Greg and he was so great to work with .
And Kelly absolutely killed the vocal . ''
Kelly Clarkson : `` That song is just a gold mine - it 's a little bit pop , a little bit pop-rock , a little bit urban , a little bit dance , and it ties everything in .
And everybody loves that message .
` What does n't kill you makes you stronger . '
It 's a perfect representation of my life . ''
Sales figures released by Nielsen SoundScan on July 5 , 2012 revealed that by that date , this had surpassed Carrie Underwood 's `` Before He Cheats '' to become the best-selling American Idol single of all time .
The numbers showed that `` Stronger '' had moved 3,510,000 singles up to July 5 , 2012 whilst since its release in 2006 , `` Before He Cheats '' had shifted 3,509,000 units .
