Though this song alludes to the troubled Britney Spears , Norman said on his website that it carried a bigger significance .
He explained : '' -LSB- It 's -RSB- a song about what our culture says and does to young women these days .
It 's about the lies we tell them about fame and money and what 's beautiful and what will give them life .
It 's an apology for those lies .
But more than that , it 's an invitation to the truth about a God who is bigger than the pain this world so often leaves them in . ''
Bebo Norman told Christian Music Today about how some late night television viewing inspired him to write this song .
Said Norman : `` That song caught me off guard .
It 's not one that I was anticipating writing or expecting to write .
I was up late one night and could n't sleep , and I was flipping through the news channels , and landed on this story about Britney Spears .
To be completely honest , my first inclination was to keep changing the channels .
But for whatever reason , I stuck on this story for a minute or two and realized pretty quickly that it was a heart-wrenching story that was unfolding : She was being taken away in a stretcher to an ambulance to a mental hospital ; the whole story involved her kids and a lot of stuff that 's hard to watch .
`` Norman then explained what it was in the news story that particularly struck him : `` There was just this look in her face that the camera captured .
I 've never really fancied myself as a longtime Britney Spears fan or anything .
I hear her music on the radio just like everybody else .
But I just think that this look on her face , there was complete brokenness .
It really stopped me in my tracks and put me in my place .
I realized in that moment for the first time that I was looking at her life less as a tabloid story and more as a real-life story in need of redemption , just like my real-life story is .
It was striking because I suddenly saw her and her story through the eyes of Jesus rather than through the eyes of condemnation -- something that we as the church are sometimes so quick to do .
We 're so quick to point the finger and point out people 's faults , where they have fallen short , rather than embracing them with the compassion of Christ .
We 're all responsible for our own choices , but in light of that , -LSB- we 're -RSB- to embrace culture with compassion . ''
