Science & Faith is the second album by the Irish alternative rock band , The Script .
The disc debuted at # 1 in Ireland and United Kingdom , and # 3 on the Billboard 200 .
The album 's title track was released as the fourth single from the record on May 8 , 2011 .
Sheehan explained why the band likes the album title in an interview with Virgin.com : `` The fun part for us is people automatically think ` they 're Irish lads , talking about religion , here we go -- they 've gone off the handle after the first album ' .
At the end of the day , it is all about the politics and science of the heart .
We are not a political band or a religious band at all . ''
The idea for the song came from guitarist Mark Sheehan recounting to his bandmates a conversation that he 'd had with his wife .
Singer Danny O'Donoghue explained to entertainment.ie : '' It was an innocent conversation but Mark being Mr. Galileo himself was explaining the sun , moon and the stars and how everything works in the world in the way that a man would .
In doing so , it moved on to chemical reactions in the brain , how she 's in love with him and he 's in love with her .
You could see her face going down , he 's pulling apart every detail of why they were in love and breaking it all down to a science .
She said then ` what about faith , what about hope , what about love ?
You wo n't find anything about those things in science books . '
`` O'Donoghue continued : `` He came in the next day and he was like ` you 'll never guess what I said last night . '
I kind of stemmed from that , and the more that you mess around with science and faith it is two worlds combining .
I think people will look at an Irish band and say that they 're talking about science and they 're talking about religion .
I like that because that is so opposite to what this band is about .
We 're not about politics and we 're not about religion , those are subjects we stay away from all the time .
It 's literally a love song and it 's about the ebb and flow between a male and a female . ''
