This song was originally written , says 3DD frontman Brad Arnold , for the remake of the movie The Poseidon Adventure .
Says Arnold : `` It was gon na be a track on that movie .
In the movie , they 're just trying to escape their death .
And there 's a ship sinking .
They showed me like a 30-second clip of the movie , and I went and wrote that song from it .
And they wound up not wanting it , so I was like , Cool , we 'll keep it .
And that 's actually the second song off a film like that .
I wrote ` Let Me Go ' off of Seventeen Days for Spiderman , and they did n't want it , so we kept it .
I 'm glad .
I had no problem with it .
`` It 's a song about `` being resilient , going against the grain and going against the world when the world 's trying to push you down , or take you out . ''
Parkour -LRB- sometimes called `` free-running , '' although the latter is actually somewhat different -RRB- is a physical discipline , sometimes called a modern-day martial art , originating in France .
It can be summed up as `` acrobatics meets assault courses '' - whereas free-running is a far more demonstrative discipline best described as a form of skateboarding which is practiced without a board .
Parkour is based on general principles of survival : Should you ever need to get from Point A to Point B as fast as possible , the shortest distance is always a straight line .
The goal , therefore , is to get past , over , under , or through various obstacles without wasting any time.Parkour practitioners -LRB- called by gender-specific pronouns ; a male parkour runner is a traceur , a female is a traceuse ; referring to multiple parkours uses traceurs -RRB- run their environment like an obstacle course : leaping obstructions , vaulting cars , bypassing staircases , and otherwise taking wild shortcuts .
Although commonly associated with cities , Parkour can be used to negotiate any type of environment .
Traceurs will tell you their discipline becomes a mindset over time .
They learn to unconsciously scan their surroundings for the best paths of escape .
Plus , it not only looks damn cool , but just might prove to be Awesome Yet Practical.Parkour has begun to appear more frequently in TV shows , owing to its growing popularity .
Its moves are commonly employed by martial artists , notably Ninja and practitioners of She Fu .
With special effects and wirework , it becomes an even more impressive feat than it already is -LRB- and is proof positive that movie producers are dedicated to Completely Missing The Point .
Parkour is cool because it is real -RRB- .
If it 's done in Slow Motion , it 's more than likely a reference to The Matrix.A realistic version of Roof Hopping - most parkour is done at or near ground level , because that 's where one encounters the most obstacles.The difference between Parkour and `` Free Running '' is similar to the difference between `` combat '' and `` display '' forms of various martial arts - one of the central `` rules '' of Parkour is that it is not a competitive sport , and emphasizes efficiency , self-discipline , and oneness with the surroundings , whereas `` free-running '' is based on display stunts and acrobatics that can be done in one location , just for the hell of it .
~ TV Tropes .
The song 's music video was directed by Shaun Silva -LRB- Kenny Chesney , Faith Hill , Alan Jackson and Sugarland -RRB- and shot in Cincinnati , Ohio .
It features a much heralded freerunning , acrobatic technique called ` Parkouring , ' which was first discovered in the early 20th century in Africa by a French Naval officer , Georges Hébert .
Though it had already appeared in various television advertisements , it was the first time this practice had been featured in a music video.Brad cites both the varying cityscape and the lack of red tape as the band 's reason for choosing Cincinnati.Shot in three days , the band 's part was finished in only one , and the other two days were spent filming Parkour freerunner Gabe Nunez as he takes a straight line through the city to rescue a woman from a would-be car crash .
Brad talks about the shoot : `` We shot our part in one day .
But normally it 's a lot harder , because normally you have a story line , but you just have one video set up that the band 's just sort of performing in .
But we shot six places that day , and it did n't wind up showing even all of them .
But we had it easy -- that guy -LRB- Nunez -RRB- , all the stuff he 's doing , there 's no special effects , and there 's no pads .
I mean , all the flips and stuff , he had to do them three and four times .
And those camera guys , they 're like , `` that dude is 35 years old , he is not gon na be walking .
Because , they said , it was hard core .
It makes my knees hurt just watching it . ''
-LRB- Check out our full interview with Brad Arnold -RRB- When writing the songs for this self-titled album , the band holed up in a Nashville cabin together until the songs were completed .
They then flew down to Orlando , Florida , to record the new CD with producer Johnny K , who also helmed Seventeen Days .
