This finger-snapping tune is the second single from The Defamation of Strickland Banks , the sophomore album from British singer/songwriter and rapper Ben Drew , who records under the name of Plan B .
The music video was directed by Daniel Wolfe and shows the soul singer Strickland Banks -LRB- played by Plan B -RRB- in court .
The clip also stars actress Vicky McClure , best known for her work in the films of Shane Meadows , as Strickland Banks ' girlfriend and Wuthering Heights actress Kaya Scodelario , as the female lead .
Scodelario also featured in Plan B 's previous video for `` Stay Too Long . ''
This won the Most Performed song award at the 2011 Ivor Novellos .
Speaking to the BBC , Drew said that he had never expected the tune to be successful , saying : `` I thought it was a good song .
I thought it was a cool song .
But the more I heard it , the more I disliked it '' .
Plan B won two other categories at the same ceremony , Best Songwriter and Best Album for The Defamation of Strickland Banks .
Accepting the award , Drew said he had written the record `` to get through to the underclass that society does n't want to talk about .
`` He continued : `` One day I got a letter from a kid who told me my record helped him get through his time in prison and he wanted to be a better person .
It was at that moment that I realised what I set out to achieve . ''
The Defamation of Strickland Banks is a concept album about a soul singer who gets sent to jail for a crime that he did n't commit .
The record chronicles his journey from stage star to inmate and his subsequent fight for survival in jail .
The first single from the disc , `` Stay Too Long , '' was Drew 's debut UK Top 10 single and this song acts not only as it 's follow-up but also continues its storyline .
He explained to Contactmusic.com : `` The video for ` She Said ' is a continuation from the last video and so is the song .
The songs are episodic , we have a video called Writings On The Wall , which is the intro to the saga , if you go on YouTube you can see it .
It is Strickland performing his single live at the Caf ' De Paris and it ends with him coming off stage .
Then ` Stay Too Long ' starts with him going backstage , going out with his entourage , getting drunk , getting in a fight and meeting a girl and bringing her back to the hotel .
Then ` She Said ' starts with him back in the hotel and then suddenly he 's in court and she 's accusing of something he has n't done . ''
This won the UK Single Of The Year prize at the 2011 Music Producers ' Guild 's awards ceremony .
The song has become an audition favorite on music talent shows such as X Factor .
Drew commented to Q magazine : `` When I wrote it , I thought of it as a cool album track , but the more I heard it the more I thought , You c -- !
You made a complete pop song !
I 'm proud of it because the song changed my life , but I do kind of hate it in a way too ! ''
