This song introduces us to Bowie 's post-Ziggy Stardust persona , Halloween Jack : `` The Halloween Jack is a real cool cat and he lives on top of Manhattan Chase . ''
It has also been suggested this song was influenced by Dhalgren , a science fiction novel by Samuel R. Delany .
Coveted session musician , Herbie Flowers , played bass guitar on this track .
Flowers is best known for co-founding the early '70s group , Blue Mink , playing the bass line on Lou Reed 's `` Walk On The Wild Side '' and penning Clive Dunn 's 1970 UK novelty chart-topper `` Grandad . ''
In 2008 , Flowers spoke to Uncut magazine about his time spent working on the Diamond Dogs album : `` We did Diamond Dogs very fast , doing basic tracks in three days in the little studio at Olympic .
Bowie was writing a lot of the stuff as we were going .
I think it was a semi-rescue attempt from his proposed George Orwell musical .
The music was weird .
I have to say I found it mildly unattractive at the time , but it was interesting stuff .
Touring Diamond Dogs across America afterwards , it felt like those new songs were anarchic , all about tearing things down .
It was prophetic in many ways .
And the music was so loud and angry .
Those shows were well organized .
Strange things were going on , too .
There was some in-fighting and maybe a lot of other things going on .
But the band stuck together . ''
The album cover was a painting of Bowie as half man , half dog .
His back half was the dog , and he was very clearly a male dog , which prompted RCA Records to airbrush the painting and make the dog gender neutral .
The line , `` Tod Browning 's freak you was '' refers to the film Freaks , which was produced and directed by Tod Browning .
The crowd noise at the beginning of the album was sampled from studio tapes of Rod Stewart 's early '70s band , The Faces .
The tapes were of their live album , Coast To Coast/Overture And Beginners and if you listen close enough , you may pick up Stewart shout `` Oy-oy ! ''
as the riff starts .
