This is the title track of English alternative rock singer-songwriter Paul Weller 's 10th studio album .
Weller explained the song in publicity materials : `` It 's political with a small ` p ' .
There 's a line in there about the death of the post box .
It 's about how technology brings advantages but it also depersonalises things . ''
The song contains the exhortation : `` Get your face off the Facebook and turn off your phone . ''
The Independent April 24 , 2010 asked Weller if this is his view of technology .
`` I can see some of the benefits of modern technology , '' he admitted .
`` I can edit my tracks at the touch of a button now , which is incredible .
But there 's lots of bulls -- t , too .
It 's strange that people my age spend all evening on Facebook talking to their ` friends ' .
Why not go down the pub ?
A guy once came up to me at a gig and asked me if I had MySpace .
I said , ` This is my space , and you 're invading it . ' ''
Wake Up The Nation won the Uncut Music Award 2010 for Best album of the Year .
Uncut magazine editor Allan Jones , who chaired the judging panel , said : `` The eventual winner , after an epic discussion , was an album that united both long-term fans among the judges and others of us who had previously been more sceptical .
So congratulations to Paul Weller , whose brilliant Wake Up The Nation was the sound of a great artist in the form of his life , absolutely aflame with ideas . ''
Weller told Spinner UK that the starting point for Wake Up The Nation came when he was sent a batch of rough ideas for songs by producer Simon Dine .
`` After 22 Dreams I did n't have any ideas in my head , '' said Weller .
`` All I knew was that I did n't want to do anything that could be vaguely described as pastoral or acoustic.I loved that last record but we were conscious of making 22 Dreams Part Two , you know , 23 Dreams or whatever .
We wanted to move on , man .
Some of the things we arrived at toward the end of 22 Dreams , dare I say the more experimental side of things ... we wanted to use that as a launch pad .
Experimental , but still with the melodic sensibilities and pop songs over the top . ''
For Wake Up The Nation , Weller for the first time went into the studio without lyrics , improvising his vocals based on the last thing he and Simon Dine had been discussing in the studio .
`` Simon 's brief , '' Weller told The Independent , `` was to make it really tough and urban sounding ; not in any way pastoral or acoustic . ''
