`` Search and Destroy '' was written by Stooges ' frontman Iggy Pop and lead guitar James Williamson .
The name of the song comes from a Time magazine article Iggy Pop saw about the Vietnam War .
The lyrics are ripe with further references to the general Vietnam War scene , including napalm , nuclear bombs , fire fights , and radiation .
The title refers to a military tactic used by the US military in the Vietnam War : to seek out the enemy , destroy them , and withdraw .
Iggy Pop recalled to Clash Magazine the making of the song : `` The funny part about it was until I convinced him to step back a little and ease up on the thing , what James brought in was four times as fast and twice as heavy !
-LRB- Laughs -RRB- It was two of the parts in the song , the two fastest parts - there are four basic building blocks - and when he did it there were just the two , and when he did it they just went over and over , faster and faster .
I sort of said , ` Look , can we make a new part that 's just like part two but in half time ? '
So he went , ` Okay ' , and that became our chorus .
Then I asked him for something which you 'll never hear on another Stooges record , something that approximates what professional song writers call a ` pre-chorus ' .
That 's the part where I 'm singing ` Love in a middle of a fire fight ' and after that , the build-up where I say `` Somebody 's got to save my soul / Baby penetrate my mind '' - that 's a pre-chorus where you actually down-shift and then you heighten the tension through building the chords so that there is a release .
So that was about the closest I got to getting any of these guys to Rock School .
-LRB- Laughs -RRB- That one has more typical song writing structure in it , which is probably why it gets the most attention . ''
In a 2010 interview with Clash Magazine , vocalist and lyricist Iggy Pop described the sentiments behind the song : `` The lyrics , I just sorta took out of Time magazine , the concept of search and destroy .
I used to read Time obsessively , because they were the representatives of the ultimate establishment to me .
They were giving the party line that represented the power people and the powers that be .
So I kinda liked to look in there and see what they were talking about , and then I 'd use that inventory in other ways .
That 's what I was doing in that song . ''
He added : `` And the thing about ` forgotten boy ' was basically a way to express my disgust .
It 's kinda like the kid in Catcher In The Rye - once you find out how the people at the top of politics or at the top of the music industry or at the top of anything , how they begin to overvalue things and think that they can push any s -- t down the throats of the youth , and they just do n't care if it 's something that kids would like or not .
They just do n't f -- kin ' care . ''
Bands and artists which have covered this song include : Cursed , Def Leppard , Red Hot Chili Peppers , EMF , the Sex Pistols , Sid Vicious , Samiam , The Dead Boys , Rocket From The Tombs , The Dictators , Shotgun Messiah , Verdena , Peaches , The Hives , Emanuel , Radio Birdman , Adult Crash , Turbonegro , and You Am I. Iggy Pop has expressed his pride in the song : `` The part of myself I like best is the guy who would dare to sing a song like ` Search And Destroy ' in the era I did , in 1969 , so soon after ` California Dreamin ' ; who said , Stick your flower power up your ass ` cos you 're not sincere about it .
Yeah , that 's a side of myself I admire . ''
-LRB- Sounds , 1986 -RRB- In our 2013 interview with guitarist James Williamson , he talked about the songwriting process : `` Well , I had come up with kind of that ` bum bum bum bum bum bum bum ' a little bit , but it was more in regard to imitating a machine gun , if you will .
Because this is the era of the Vietnam War .
And so we were kind of screwing around with that , and that 's where that figure comes from .
Then the rest of the song was around that .
But I think the beginning , the ` bum bum bum bum bum bum bum , bum bum bum bum bum bum bum , ' that part was the thing that really kicked off that song . ''
This song and its album Raw Power have won a litany of awards .
Rolling Stone ranked this song # 468 on their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time , VH1 ranked it 49th in their Best Hard Rock songs of All Time , and a 1970s Punk magazine based in San Francisco named themselves after it .
Henry Rollins -LRB- frontman for Black Flag -RRB- has the title of this song tattooed on his back !
Meanwhile , the album Raw Power has had a huge influence .
The late Kurt Cobain -LRB- Nirvana -RRB- , Morrissey and Johnny Marr -LRB- The Smiths -RRB- have all said that this is their favorite album of all time .
Steve Jones -LRB- Sex Pistols -RRB- said that he cut his guitar-playing teeth on this album .
Rolling Stone , again , ranked Raw Power # 125 on their 500 Greatest Albums of All Time .
Bruce Dickinson -LRB- Iron Maiden -RRB- executive-produced the 1997 Columbia Records remix .
In spite of all these honors , the original album and singles released from same did poorly in sales and the singles failed to chart , while the album itself barely scratched the Billboard Pop Albums chart at # 182 .
This almost puts The Stooges in Velvet Underground territory when it comes to bands that initially flopped before becoming celebrated heroes worshiped by just about anybody in the music world .
In fact John Cale -LRB- Velvet Underground bassist -RRB- produced The Stooges ' first self-titled album .
Pop expanded to Q Magazine May 2010 on how the lyrical content was an attack on musical industry bigwigs : `` Something I was trying to say through those words at the time was I had the impression that music as a branch of the entertainment industry was becoming an old cheese .
It was about a bunch of people at the top manipulating certain institutional positions with the smug confidence that ` kids ' at the bottom would swallow whatever they put out .
They thought they could sell s -- t if there was money in it but they 'd forgotten about the simple truth that any kid can see . ''
The song has been used in several TV shows , including HBO 's The Wire and the last season of Lost .
It also features in the movie Almost Famous .
