This instrumental features some whistling by movie legend Clint Eastwood .
`` We wrote -LSB- it -RSB- as a Western .
It 's an epic movie soundtrack-sounding Western , '' Paisley told The Boot .
`` I 've become friends with Clint and his wife , Dina .
So I emailed Dina and said , ` Does he whistle ? '
And she said , ` Yeah , you want him to whistle on something ? '
I said , ' I have a thing that sounds like an Ennio Morricone , the guy that did all the spaghetti western music like ` The Good , Bad and the Ugly , ' and of course it has to have -LSB- he whistles -RSB- all that kind of stuff .
I asked , ` Can he do that ? '
She wrote back and said , ` He 'd love to . ' ''
Another song titled after the iconic actor is Gorillaz 's 2001 single `` Clint Eastwood . ''
It was so named as the theme from Eastwood 's movie The Good , The Bad , and the Ugly can be heard periodically throughout the song .
This Is Country Music is a musically diverse love letter to country and Paisley felt it was important to include a song on the collection that was reminiscent of old westerns .
`` I wanted to write a western song because it was one of the things I felt belonged on here , '' he explained to CMT .
`` I love spaghetti western music .
Crazy , cool music .
I do n't know where -LSB- Italian composer -RSB- Ennio Morricone got the idea that a Fender guitar through an amp with reverb and a guy whistling was the sound of the Old West , but he did .
It 's amazing to me how much that is the sound of the Old West .
So I covered the guitar with the reverb part , and I figured if you want street cred -- if there is such a thing as street cred in the western movie word -- it 's to have Clint do the whistling . ''
The short intro features Paisley 's sons , Huck , and Jasper , who were four and two-years-old respectively when the song was recorded .
Though better known for his movie career , Clint Eastwood has also featured on various music charts .
His version of `` I Talk To the Trees '' from the movie soundtrack for Paint Your Wagon was a # 18 hit in the UK in 1970 and he also made a visit to the country chart summit with `` Bar Room Buddies , '' a collaboration with Merle Haggard from the film for Bronco Billy , which reigned the week of July 26 , 1980 .
Another music link to Eastwood is his interest in jazz , which led him to direct Bird , a biopic starring Forest Whitaker as jazz musician Charlie `` Bird '' Parker .
Also Clint 's son , Kyle Eastwood , is a successful jazz bassist and composer .
