Lonely Avenue is a collaboration album between American piano-popster Ben Folds and English muso novelist Nick Hornby .
Folds previously worked with Hornby on `` That 's Me Trying , '' a song that appeared on the 2004 Folds-produced William Shatner album Has Been .
The way the pair collaborated was that Hornby emailed lyrics to Folds , who then wrote the music .
The American singer-songwriter told Spinner UK : `` There was no consulting .
He sent me emails without explanations .
I 'd play around with them -LSB- the lyrics -RSB- a little bit , and if I found something in it and was ready to go , which I usually was , I called the band up and went to the studio , which was on hold , and recorded it , Nick got an MP3 the next morning . ''
Folds told Spinner UK that even though the duo appear to be making fun of Johnston , the song is really about growing up .
`` The fact that Levi Johnston has become a celebrity was never ever in either one of our heads , '' he explained .
`` I find it a little unfortunate because now it looks like some kind of a novelty song or satire .
There 's no satire , no novelty .
It 's totally on his side .
We were kids too .
I just happen to like the guy . ''
Folds told Jam !
Music : `` I got the lyrics the day after the Republican National Convention .
I did n't know who Levi Johnston was .
Nick noticed the kid onstage .
Now that he 's famous , it adds another dimension that I 'm not sure is good for the song . ''
Levi Johnston , who is the father of American politician Sarah Palin 's grandson , is the bone-headed protagonist of this track .
The Alaskan first received media attention in August 2008 when Palin was running for the vice-presidency on a family values ticket , and was forced to announce that her daughter Bristol was five months pregnant and that Johnston was the father .
The lyrics , `` I live to hang out with the boys/Get on my snowboard/Do some fishing/Kill some moose , '' are based on lines from Johnston 's former MySpace page .
Al Gore got to hear this song and called up Folds to say he loved it .
