This club banger was released as the fourth US single by UK boyband The Wanted from their debut self-titled EP .
It finds them declaring that nothing can stop them from going all the way .
`` They said this day would n't come , we refuse to run , we 've only just begun , you 'll find us chasing the sun , '' the boys croon .
The song was dropped on April 5 , 2012 .
The Wanted 's Jay McGuiness told MTV News : `` Our song ` Chasing the Sun ' is basically about the party that keeps on going . ''
Speaking with UK newspaper The Daily Star , The Wanted 's Max George admitted that the band think Example 's original demo is better than the version they recorded .
He said : `` Example 's version is better than ours .
He thinks we can sell it better , which is true , but if we can sell it for him it 'll be good for us and very nice for him too . ''
British rapper and singer Example wrote the song .
Example admitted that he originally wrote it for Australian Dance-Pop singer Kylie Minogue , before deciding the tune would suit The Wanted more .
He told UK newspaper The Daily Star : `` When I wrote it , I was in a studio session for Kylie , so the verses were a bit spiritual .
But when we finished I was like : ` This is The Wanted , ' and did n't even bother running it past Kylie .
I sent it straight over to their record label and they loved it . ''
Here 's a list of the Example songs in our database .
This is the theme song for the 2012 Hollywood movie Ice Age 4 : Continental Drift .
The song 's lyrics about chasing drinks can also be interpreted as a family-friendly anthem about chasing dreams .
This enabled The Wanted to film two videos , the first about partying with vampires , the second , which finds them performing on some icebergs .
`` I think this song , it can mean many things , '' Jay McGuiness explained to MTV News .
`` To some people , it is partying all night and chasing the sun the next morning .
That 's what that -LSB- first -RSB- video 's about ; the girls , the teeth are there , the vampires .
So we 're all there partying away .
And that 's one aspect of the song .
Another aspect of the song is chasing your dreams , the unattainable acorn in the distance . ''
