In this song , Rundgren takes on musicians who sing about changing the world but then do nothing about it .
The line , `` get up and see the revolution on the TV '' seemed to be directed at John Lennon and his song `` Revolution . ''
This led to a war of words between Lennon and Rundgren that played out in the press .
In September , 1973 , Rundgren did an interview with the British music magazine Melody Maker where he said , `` John Lennon ai n't no revolutionary .
He 's a f -- idiot , man .
Shouting about revolution and acting like an ass .
It just makes people feel uncomfortable .
All he really wants to do is get attention for himself , and if revolution gets him that attention , he 'll get attention through revolution.Lennon replied in the magazine with his `` Open Lettuce to Sodd Runtwhistle , '' where he wrote , `` Somebody played me your rock and roll pussy song , but I never noticed anything .
I think that the real reason you 're mad at me is cause I did n't know who you were at the Rainbow -LRB- L.A. -RRB- Remember that time you came in with Wolfman Jack ?
When I found out later , I was cursing cause I wanted to tell you how good you were .
-LRB- I 'd heard you on the radio . -RRB-
`` The rivalry between Lennon and Rundgren took a strange and tragic turn when it was revealed that Lennon 's killer , Mark David Chapman , was similarly obsessed with Rundgren and tried to find him a few days before Lennon 's murder .
Chapman left a copy of Rundgren 's second album in the hotel where he checked out the day he killed Lennon , and when he was caught , Chapman was wearing a promotional T-shirt for Rundgren 's Hermit Of Mink Hollow album .
In an interview after his incarceration , Chapman said Rundgren 's music was the `` soundtrack to my life .
`` Rundgren would later say that `` Rock and Roll Pussy '' was not specifically about Lennon , telling Spinner , `` One can say that John Lennon was guilty possibly of some of the finger-pointing that the song evinces , but it 's mostly the whole idea of talk versus action and not specific to any one person . ''
The album A Wizard , a True Star was overshadowed by Rundgren 's previous release , Something/Anything ?
and its single `` Hello It 's Me , '' which became a hit when radio stations started playing it late in 1973 , about 6 months after A Wizard was released .
A Wizard , a True Star was a much less accessible album , and it contained no singles .
Rundgren , who had plenty of money from his work producing other artists , said that the album was an important part of his musical evolution , and he did n't care about its commercial prospects .
He stood by the album and in 2009 started doing shows where he performed it in its entirety .
