Jackson wrote this song , which can be interpreted as an angry attack on the tabloid press and others who hounded him .
A struggle with fame and being misunderstood were common themes for Jackson , and in this song he lashes out at those who take advantage of him : `` They eat off of you , you 're a vegetable . ''
This was the 4th of 7 US Top 10 hits from the Thriller album .
It is by far the top selling album of all time worldwide .
`` Billie Jean '' is mentioned in the lyrics , `` Billie Jean is always talkin ' when nobody else is talkin ' .
Tellin ' lies and rubbin ' shoulders , so they called her mouth a motor . ''
This briefly tells the story of the groupie that claimed Jackson was the father of her child and was the subject of the song , which was also on the Thriller album .
Rihanna sampled the `` mama-ko , mama-sa , mama-ma-ko-sa '' chant from this on her 2007 international hit single `` Do n't Stop the Music . ''
Julia , Maxine and Oren Waters sang backing vocals on this track .
Along with their other sibling Luther , they performed as The Waters and backed hundreds of artists , including Herble Hancock , Bon Jovi and Rod Stewart .
At the end of this song , the chorus is `` Ma ma se , ma ma sa , ma ma coo sas . ''
The line is borrowed from Cameroon native Manu Dibango 's 1972 song `` Funky Soul Makossa . ''
Jackson did not have permission to appropriate the song , and reached an out-of-court settlement with Dibango over the use .
At Jackson 's 2001 tribute special , Whitney Houston , Usher , and Mya performed this to start the show , which was made into a 2-hour TV special .
The UPC code on the album cover contained 7 digits that were rumored to be Jackson 's telephone number .
People with that number in many different area codes got swamped with annoying calls .
In 2008 Jackson re-recorded this song with Akon as `` Wan na Be Startin ' Somethin' 08 . ''
It was his first entry on the Hot 100 since `` One More Chance '' peaked at # 83 in 2003 .
This version was included on a special 25th anniversary edition of Thriller .
