When the stage actress Laura Bell Bundy recorded her second album , she came up with the idea of dividing it into two sides : the upbeat `` Shakin ' '' and and the more reflective `` Achin ' '' side .
Included on the `` Achin ' '' side , Bundy told us , `` It 's the hardest one for me to sing now .
It 's the one that when I wrote it I was like , Oh my god , this is the best song I 've ever written . ''
She added : `` Every relationship I get into I fall in love and then I leave .
I have to go somewhere .
And I do n't mean I leave because I leave the relationship .
I physically leave and move to a different town because of work .
I dated a guy for 5 years .
We started long distance , and at one point we were in California together , and then I moved to New York , and we were apart for a year , and then we broke up .
And I dated someone in New York , and then I moved to Nashville , and then it all went south .
I rode on an airplane leaving New York City , and I kept thinking , when it all goes south , like , the double meaning of it .
I left and went south , and the relationship goes south .
But it was n't like it 's gone south , it 's like it 's going to go .
It was almost predicting it , and it 's almost beautiful , because it 's like what goes up comes down , and you took my feet off the ground , over the moon , I 'm seeing the stars all around .
And no thanks to you , when I finally land it 'll be more than I can stand .
When it all goes south .
So it 's like when it finally hits me , when I finally come down to reality , its going to be hard .
I 'm going to cry my way through the clouds , I 'll try to spread my wings but they 'll be tied and bound .
I wo n't be able to move , but it 's inevitable .
It 's horribly sad.But it 's interesting because I had this idea , I 'm on an airplane , I 'm writing some lyrics , I was writing the idea of ` When It All Goes South . '
I was really stuck on it , too , because I had this writing session with Nathan Chapman the following day , and I kept bringing it up , ' I really , really want to write this idea . '
And he 's going through something at the time , and he 's like , ` I 'm in the mood to write a sad song . '
I was like , ` Me , too . '
He was going through something that was relatable , but not like his relationship with his wife , it was something else .
And he felt like this idea of if I did n't need you , just wanted you , I never would have let you make me feel so high .
So for him that was the line that really represented the situation that he was in , that he had let someone or something be so important to him that he needed it .
And then when it left , it was too hard for him to bear .
So we were in a relatable situation , we had similar emotions about different situations .
And the idea of making someone your gravity , giving them the power over you .
And the whole time/space , amazing grace , you need it all to just be .
For me it was , Oh , you need time , and you need space .
You also need Jesus , you also need this , but can you just be .
That was that idea .
That was me almost commenting on myself , too .
Like , can I just be ?
And can this person just be ?
But we need all these things , we need time and space .
And we meant that almost scientifically , like you believe that there 's time and space that exists in the universe .
You also believe in God and amazing grace .
That 's where it gets real deep . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Laura Bell Bundy . -RRB-
