This is the first single from American contemporary Christian band MercyMe 's seventh studio album , The Generous Mr. Lovewell .
The single topped the chart on Billboard Christian Songs , earning MercyMe their tenth # 1 hit on the survey .
This was the 2010 National Christian Audience Song of the Year and Christian AC Song of the Year .
The track dominated Billboard 's AC Monitored chart for 11 weeks , the longest run at # 1 in MercyMe 's career .
Lead singer Bart Millard explained the meaning of the album title : `` The Generous Mr. Lovewell revolves around a fictional character we created who reminds us that we simply need to love others well .
For some of us , it means that we need to put hands and feet on our ideology and rhetoric .
For others , it means that we need to continue in doing well , but to not stop there .
We need to let people know why we are called to make a difference .
Our prayer is that this album would mobilize the body of Christ to encourage people in word and deed . ''
Millard told the story of the song to NewReleaseTuesday : `` The entire album deals with three main aspects of love .
The theme of the record is to ` love well ' as Jesus commands us in the greatest commandment .
There are songs about inward love such as in our song ` Beautiful . '
There are songs based on ` we love because He first loved us , ' which is the basis of this first single , ` All of Creation . '
I set out to write a song that was confessional and refers to the birth , death and resurrection of Jesus in each verse .
It was my intent to mention every stage of Christ 's condescension and atoning sacrifice throughout the song .
`` Millard added : `` There are 11 different Bible verses that tie in to the song , including in the bridge : Philippians 2:9 -11 : ` Therefore God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name , that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow , in heaven and on earth and under the earth , and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord , to the glory of God the Father . ' ''
