This is the title track of British Indie Rock band White Lies ' third album .
The record loosely tells the story of a girl leaving home for some unnamed metropolis .
Bassist and lyricist Charles Cave told NME that it 's based on friends of his moving away .
He explained : `` I 'm envious and I think they 're very brave for doing it , going away and starting again -- is that irresponsible , or is it irresponsible to not look for something better ? ''
Cave told The Sun : '' ` Big TV as come to represent the vacuous ambition this girl has .
It sits totally out of place with her small , humble home in this new city .
It 's a superficial badge of achievement or success that is as empty as the black screen on its face .
It 's disposable and will be outdated soon , possibly like the city .
The album is a story of empty hope in many ways or at least the mortality of satisfaction .
At one point or another you 'll just want to change the channel .
Cave told Digital Spy that the album title originated from a rather silly joke .
`` We were with Kings of Leon on tour in America , '' he recalled , `` and our keyboard player Tommy said , ` It 'd be cool if we had a bit more to do in the dressing room ' , and Harry -LRB- McVeigh , vocals -RRB- interjected , ` Why you banging on about getting a massive TV ? '
Tommy was like , ' I did n't say anything about it being massive ' .
But as soon as he denied it , that 's when we all went in for it .
We took it so far over the next few weeks we were texting his girlfriend at 1 , 2 in the morning about getting this ` big TV ' .
So that 's been in our minds for a while ! ''
He continued : `` We were working on that song -LRB- ` Big TV ' -RRB- and when it got to the chorus , I was thinking , ` What is the epitome of this vacuous , shallow desire for modern success ? '
and all I could think of were these horrendously vulgar-sized TVs that people seem to have , even if they 've got a tiny , tiny apartment .
Then I thought , ` Imagine if this actually makes it -LSB- as the chorus -RSB- ' - it 's almost like a post-joke .
We held off from telling Tommy for a really long time that we even had a song with that , let alone the album name ! ''
This song finds the disillusioned girl leaving her small provincial town for the Big City .
Cave told NME : `` She 's got a horrible room downtown .
It 's the first time she 's owned a TV . ''
The cover artwork for the album is an oil painting titled Pilot 2 by New York City artist Michael Kagan .
Cave told The Sun : `` He was suggested by a friend and he was a White Lies fan and keen for us to use his paintings .
Although space travel is in no way referenced lyrically on the album , the imagery still seemed to sit very well with the songs and music on Big TV . ''
