The first single from American Electro-Pop band Passion Pit 's sophomore album , Gosammer , finds singer Michael Angelakos singing of family financial struggles , including an immigrant relative selling flowers outside Penn Station .
`` It 's about very specific family members , the male hierarchy , and how the men in my family have always dealt with money , '' he explained to MTV News .
`` I 've always been really fond of a lot of my family members and not so fond of others .
All these men were very conservative ; socially very liberal but for some reason , they all came here for capitalism , and they all ended up kind of being prey to capitalism .
And I 'm not making any political statements or anything , but it 's ironic and it 's sad . ''
The song 's music video was shot in Philadelphia and directed by David Wilson using helicam technology .
The clip shows the world from the perspective of a blue ball as it bounces through the city and into the clouds .
`` It was the desire to echo the seamless rhythm in the song with the camera bounce that drew me to this bespoke helicam capable of creating such a smooth bounce , '' explained Wilson .
`` Essentially , we were able to achieve moves with the camera that I have n't seen before ; the bounce is something that really differentiates this from any helicam video I 've seen before , '' he added .
`` Making that a reality was a challenge ; there 's a reason a camera has n't been bounced via mini helicopter before . ''
Angelakos was concerned that people might misinterpret the single as a political song with its mentions of lost pensions and `` damn taxes . ''
The frontman told MTV News that he does n't `` really do n't consider myself a very political person , '' adding `` I really do n't like political songs , frankly . ''
He continued : `` I did n't want people to read it the wrong way .
I was more or less interested in analyzing my own family , and that was my way of talking about myself , because I 'm a product of these men ; I 'm their blood .
And that was a new way for me to express something . ''
The song 's commercial success was helped by its inclusion in Taco Bell 's Doritos Tacos Locos advertising campaign , which ran concurrently with its release .
