The Albatross became a famous literary device when it was used in the 18th century Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem , The Rime of the Ancient Mariner .
An albatross is a large bird often seen over water .
In Coleridge 's tale , a ship is lost at sea but guided toward home by an albatross .
The narrator of the poem -LRB- the Ancient Mariner -RRB- shoots the bird with a crossbow , not realizing that it is vital to navigation .
When the weather turns ugly , the ship 's crew makes the mariner wear the dead albatross around his neck as a symbol of shame .
All of the crew dies except the mariner , who must live with the guilt .
The albatross has since come to represent a past indiscretion that continues to torment a person .
If something continues to haunt you , you can be said to have `` an albatross around your neck . ''
This song does n't fit the mould of a traditional single , but it was chosen as the first release from the album and made it to # 1 on the Canadian Active Rock Chart .
Lead singer Ian Thornley did n't think the record company would see it as single material .
He told us : `` I was actually shocked when they said , ` We want to go with ` Albatross . ''
These guys have some balls .
You know , if you 're going to play the game of singles , you need to be hitting that first chorus within the first minute .
That 's the unwritten rule that is almost a written rule at this point .
Hit the chorus by the first minute , keep it under three and a half , all these stupid things .
And I do n't even start singing till one minute of ` Albatross . '
They did n't even service radio with a radio edit .
They just wanted the song .
So I could n't be more proud of Anthem and Warner for having the nuts to get behind it . ''
In our interview with Big Wreck frontman Ian Thornley , he explained : `` The song , that was one of those that took about 10 years to write , but actually fell into my lap in about five minutes .
And as it was falling into my lap , I was like , Oh , I do n't think anyone 's ever done this before .
Come to find , of course , that it has been used before , several times .
`` Here are some of those other artists who have recorded their own `` Albatross '' : Fleetwood Mac -LRB- the Peter Green Version -RRB- , 1969Judy Collins , 1967Public Image Ltd. , 1979Corrosion of Conformity 1994
