This was the first song on The Doors first album , and also their first single .
It got some airplay on Los Angeles radio stations after their friends and fans kept requesting it .
Jim Morrison got some of the lyrics from John Rechy 's 1963 book `` City of Night . ''
John Densmore added the knocking drum sound by hitting his drumstick sideways across the snare .
The vocals are a mix of two of Morrison 's takes .
This was included on the Doors tribute album Stoned Immaculate , with Scott Weiland on vocals .
In The Doors Box Set , Ray Manzarek said this was the last song they played live .
It was during the Isle of the Wight Festival in the summer of 1970 .
The festival occurred while Morrison was on trial in Miami faced with charges of indecent exposure , and the band got a special 5 days of recess to be in England and get back to US .
`` This was to be the first gig of an European tour just as Miami was to be the first gig of a 20-city US tour .
We never got beyond the first date of either one , '' said Ray .
-LRB- thanks , Nisio - Belo Horizonte , Brazil , for above 2 -RRB- The original line in the chorus was `` She gets high . ''
Elektra records censored `` high , '' making it sound like , `` she get uuggh , '' but the `` high '' line can be heard in live versions .
You can also hear the song as intended in the 1999 reissue of the album , which was overseen by their original engineer Bruce Botnick .
He also replaced Jim Morrison 's `` f -- k `` s on `` The End . ''
The guitar melody was inspired by Paul Butterfield 's `` Shake Your Money Maker . ''
This was one of 6 songs The Doors recorded for a demo on Aura Records while they were trying to get signed in 1965 .
Robby Krieger was not yet with the group .
In year 2000 , the surviving members of The Doors taped a VH1 Storytellers episode with guest vocalists filling in for Morrison .
Scott Weiland from The Stone Temple Pilots sang on this .
As John Densmore states in The Doors Box Set , the beat of this song was inspired by Brazilian Bossa Nova like Joao Gilberto and Tom Jobim .
In an episode of The Simpsons , Krusty the Klown sings this when he shows the crowd a tape of him when he was younger .
-LRB- thanks , bob - Laguna Beach , CA -RRB-
