This follows on from `` The 2nd Law : Unsustainable '' on The 2nd Law and both are doom-drenched operas full of newsreel reports from the end of civilization .
`` It 's the noise of humanity on a tiny planet in the middle of nothing , '' Matt Bellamy chuckled to NME .
`` Hanging around space would be so peaceful and quiet and suddenly you come to this little blip that 's f -- ing chaos !
I see it us drifting away from the planet and going into the peacefulness of what is gon na happen at the end of it all , which is nothingness . ''
Matt Bellamy discussed with Q magazine how this mainly instrumental piece , `` devolves into the sound of the universe cooling down . ''
He explained : `` In my mind I 'm saying , ' I want to create the sound of the universe cooling down ' -LSB- laughs -RSB- , even though it 's a ridiculously abstract idea it makes you approach a sound in a particular day .
You 're thinking , this piano part should slowing down , there should be some deep reverb here and it goes further and further .
It 's things like that , abstract ideas , that you try to get the music to conjure up in some way . ''
Bellamy told the Metro how his television viewing as a child influenced his thinking . ''
` I 'm part of that generation who had ecological concerns instilled into us by Blue Peter and Newsround , '' he said .
`` At the same time , there 's that tension about whether we should restrict our natural state or push forward and survive against the odds .
As a species , we have limited resources but at the same time I do n't want to regress . ''
This song features in the zombie-apocalypse thriller , World War Z. `` When we started making this film a couple years ago we discussed trying to find a ` Tubular Bells , ' which is the theme song to The Exorcist , '' explained the film 's producer and star Brad Pitt .
`` It was n't written for The Exorcist .
The Exorcist appropriated it and then it became the theme song from there .
But we wanted to have that same kind of feeling . ''
When Pitt and crew arrived at this song , they discovered the Muse band members had been reading the Max Brooks authored World War Z book when they recorded The 2nd Law .
