Parmalee paid their dues before releasing their debut major label album Feels Like Carolina .
This party anthem was written during harder times while temporarily living in an R.V. in the parking lot of a Nashville motel during the city 's 2010 flood .
It was released as their first single after signing with Stoney Creek Records and peaked at # 42 on the Country chart .
Matt Thomas told Radio.com why they penned this good-natured party song : `` We 're at a point in our lives where we just want everyone to have a good time , '' he said .
`` We want to write happy , fun songs and I want to smile when I 'm singing a song . ''
Lead vocalist Matt Thomas explained the song 's meaning to The Boot : '' ` Musta Had a Good Time ' describes that one epic party that all of us have either been to - or hope to go to - at some point in our lives , '' he said .
`` It 's that one party that becomes a legend in a small town .
The response that we get from fans when we play this song live is crazy - the fans know all the words and everyone 's dancing , and it becomes a party on stage and in the crowd .
We 're finding out that there 's a lot of people out there who really like to have a good time . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Wes Edwards -LRB- Jason Aldean , Thompson Square -RRB- and was intended to portray the monumental party in the song , but the bash they filmed went further than they anticipated .
`` We shot the video at this big house near Music Row -LRB- in Nashville -RRB- with a huge swimming pool and big , crazy deck , '' Matt Thomas told The Boot .
`` There were a million things going on at once , from miniature horses running around , to stunt bikers jumping in the pool , to people dancing in a foam pit . ''
`` It was pretty overwhelming .
You could n't look anywhere and not see something totally ridiculous , '' added guitarist Josh McSwain , laughing .
`` The video shoot was only supposed to look like the party described in the song , but at some point the shoot actually became the party .
We even got kicked out of the house we were shooting in ! ''
