Get Money Entertainment is an Indie Record Label/Promotion Team based in Atlanta , which has been around since early 2007 , and their first signing was a young Atlanta rapper called Roscoe Dash , formally known as `` Atl . ''
In November 2008 Roscoe Dash released his mixtape entitled , Gettin 2 Da Money .
By this time Get Money Entertainment had grown and become well known in their home city .
CEO Young K then introduced Roscoe Dash to several of his business associates including Soulja Boy Tellem and in April 2009 the rapper began to record at the well known Arrogant Music Studios .
One of the songs he laid down was the original version of this number , which included two verses by a southern rap group known as , Travis Porter.In September 2009 the track was released on Travis Porter 's mixtape , Im A Diffrenter 2 credited to Travis Porter ft. Atl & Yt .
The song began to take off locally but fans of the track thought it was Travis Porter 's song rather than Roscoe Dash 's .
In response to this Dash took out Travis Porter 's contribution replacing their verses with some by Soulja Boy Tellem .
When the new version was released it became the # 1 song in Atlanta within a couple weeks of coming out .
A record label bidding war for his signature ensued and Young K was flooded with emails and phone calls from many of the major companies .
Roscoe Dash eventually decided to settle for an album deal with Def Jam Records and this song was released as his first single .
Dash explained to MTV News : `` The definition of ` All the Way Turnt Up ' is a new age crunk - a 2010 crunk .
I 'm not afraid to be different , or do things other people would be afraid to do or do different because they 're afraid of what somebody else might say .
I do n't have that thought process . ''
Ludacris recorded a version of this cut for his mixtape , The Conjure Mixtape : A Hustler 's Spirit , which was released to promote his brand of cognac .
The rapper explained about his takeover of Roscoe Dash 's song to MTV News : `` The whole record is talking about being yourself , turning your music up as loud as hell and not caring what anybody had to say .
It 's about you being too loud .
Sometimes you get tickets for disturbing the peace .
When you see a cop , you have to turn it down . ''
Soulja Boy openly lobbied via Twitter to appear on this track .
He told MTV News that when he first heard this song , `` it reminded me of myself .
I was like , ` That sounds like a ` Turn My Swag On ' times 10 .
Man , I got ta get on that . ' ''
Roscoe Dash was born Jeffrey Johnson Jr and his stage surname was inspired by the fastest of The Incredibles .
