Explaining this song to Q magazine in 1992 , lead singer Michael Stipe said : `` The words come from everywhere .
I 'm extremely aware of everything around me , whether I am in a sleeping state , awake , dream-state or just in day to day life .
There 's a part in ` It 's The End Of The World As We Know It ' that came from a dream where I was at Lester Bangs ' birthday party and I was the only person there whose initials were n't L.B. .
So there was Lenny Bruce , Leonid Brezhnev , Leonard Bernstein ... So that ended up in the song along with a lot of stuff I 'd seen when I was flipping TV channels .
It 's a collection of streams of consciousness . ''
Stipe claims to have a lot of dreams about the end of the world , destroyed buildings and the like .
His stream-of-consciousness writing style in this is very similar to the way a dream moves .
When R.E.M. played this live , the audience reacted with a party vibe that threw off the band .
They thought the apocalyptic lyrics would create a more subdued response .
In the last verse , the line , `` The other night I tripped at Knox '' refers to Knox college in Galesburg Illinois , where the band had a night of fun .
The government of the Soviet Union allowed this to appear on a 1990 Greenpeace album that was distributed there .
This appeared in an episode of The Simpsons when Homer and Moe are fighting about Moe 's new bar .
Homer opens his own bar in his garage and then lies to REM about why they are playing there .
-LRB- thanks , chet - saratoga springs , NY -RRB- The song 's title was used as the name of a two-part episode in season 2 of Grey 's Anatomy .
-LRB- thanks , Rachel - Albany , NY -RRB- Although the official lyrics are `` Do n't get caught in foreign tower , '' many students at Boston University heard this line as , `` Do n't get caught in Warren Towers , '' which is an undesirable dorm where many freshmen at the university end up living .
This was heavily influenced by Bob Dylan , especially the way Dylan sang `` Subterranean Homesick Blues . ''
Stipe had once imitated Dylan in a low-budget film called Just Like a Movie , which was a play on the Dylan song `` Just Like a Woman . ''
This started off as a song called `` Bad Day , '' and had lyrics decrying the politics of the Reagan administration .
R.E.M. finally released `` Bad Day '' on their 2003 Greatest Hits album .
Michael Stipe said that the lyrics were written to make people smile .
The words he used tend to make your mouth smile when you speak them .
-LRB- thanks , Andy - Indiana , PA -RRB- This appears in the movies Dream A Little Dream , Independence Day , Tommy Boy and Chicken Little .
-LRB- thanks , Jonathan - Johnstown , PA and John - Mountain Lakes , NJ -RRB- Billy Joel had a huge hit 2 years later when he used the rapid-vocal , stream of consciousness lyric style on `` We Did n't Start The Fire . ''
Lead singer Brett Anderson of the all-girl band The Donnas told Rolling Stone magazine that she is a `` R.E.M. geek '' and can recite all of the lyrics to the song .
-LRB- thanks , Bri - Chelmsford , MA -RRB- The opening lyrics , `` That 's great ; it starts with an earthquake , '' could be a biblical reference , as earthquakes are sometimes seen a sign of the end times .
It could also be REM 's interpretation of the Book of Revelations .
Here 's Revelation 11:19 - `` And the temple of God which is in heaven was opened ; and the ark of His covenant appeared in His temple , and there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and an earthquake and a great hailstorm . ''
-LRB- thanks , Robbie - Dallas , TX -RRB- The Mayans ' doomsday prophesy of the end of the world for December 21 , 2012 may not have happened , but this song registered a hefty surge in sales and airplay in the days before the potentially apocalyptic event .
Most notably in Calgary , Canada , where according to a tweet of theirs , the alternative CFEX -LRB- X92 .9 -RRB- station played this tune `` 156 times in a row by our count . ''
