This is the third single from American rapper Kid Cudi 's debut album Man on the Moon : The End of the Day .
The song was premiered on DJ Semtex 's BBC Radio 1Xtra show on September 4 , 2009 .
Its American debut was on David Letterman 's Late Show on September 11 , 2009 .
The song 's music video was produced by Josh Hartnett and directed by Brody Baker .
Cudi explained to MTV News how he hooked up with them : `` I was actually telling Josh that I wanted to shoot the video .
We were hanging out one day , and he -LSB- Hartnett -RSB- was like , ` Aw , I know this one guy , he 's done great work .
He 's really dope and refreshing . '
I was familiar with his stuff .
He -LSB- Baker -RSB- did the music video for Animal Collective 's ` My Girls , ' and I was a fan of that video . ''
Cudi added that he gave Baker a rough concept for the clip and the director embellished it .
`` I just saw the first rough cut the other day .
Drake is in it .
He has a cameo ... a bunch of my homies that I knew coming up , '' Cudi said .
`` We were just kicking it .
When you see the video , it just makes me feel good , because I 'm seeing all my friends and people that matter in my life .
We were all celebrating .
It 's like a New Year 's Eve-type thing .
Everybody 's just getting wasted . ''
The song features the New York based dance punk act MGMT and was produced and co-written by New York electro duo Ratatat .
AOL asked Cudi what he was listening to whilst making the record .
He replied : `` The stuff that I listened to the most was probably MGMT and Ratatat .
I was a super big fan of both groups even before I thought of attempting to reach out to them for the album .
With MGMT , I was inspired by their lyrics .
They really taught me to think outside the box when writing . ''
Djbooth.net asked Kid Cudi what was it like to work with artists such as Ratatat and MGMT who , up to this point , have never really collaborated within a hip-hop landscape .
He replied : `` It was a dream come true , and I was excited to be that artist to bring them together and really do it in the proper way . ''
He added that this song , `` is the epitome of what you would imagine a Ratatat-engineered Kid Cudi song would sound like .
And these songs came about fairly quickly -- we went in the studio for hours and hours and hours trying to just do this one song and figure out a first verse , I wrote it down really quickly , and that was the whole method behind the entire album , just movin ' off of that creative spark right away . ''
American singer-songwriter Lissie recorded a cover version for her 2012 EP , Covered Up with Flowers , which has also become a regular feature in her live shows .
Lissie told UK newspaper The Daily Telegraph : `` I love the defiance in it and I just love performing it because it helps towards getting out my aggression and makes me feel strong overall . ''
