This is the title track of gospel artist Kirk Franklin 's eleventh album .
In our interview with Franklin , he explained that the first line - `` Hello , fear , before you sit down , there 's something I need to explain '' - was the basis of the song .
Said Franklin , `` That 's it .
Just in that statement right there , it 's like , okay , where are we going ?
I just knew that that first line had to be significant .
And sometimes it 's the pressure of living up to the first line .
If the first line is so dope , it 's like where can I go ?
Like with ` Hello Fear , ' I had that sentence for four or five months .
Just ` Hello , fear , before you sit down there 's something I need to explain . '
Well , you do n't really know what to say after that .
But you know whatever you say you have the opportunity to be majorly impactful or extremely corny . ''
Franklin freely credits God with helping him craft Hello Fear .
`` Y' know , man , God just really dropped some incredible song ideas in my heart , '' he explained to Billboard magazine .
`` Like , I was walking by the piano one day , and that 's when the lyrics came to ` Hello Fear ; ' ` Before you sit down there 's something I need to explain ... ' -- Whoa !
That kind of caught my attention .
So I 'm comfortable now , at this season in my life , letting God drive and sitting in the passenger seat .
It 's the best way ; instead of trying to force it and contrive it , when the music flows like water , you never have to worry about what 's coming next . ''
The song sees Franklin singing about how to defeat fear .
Having endured a difficult childhood , rebellion against authority in his teens , and intense media scrutiny after admitting to struggling with a porn addiction at the height of his gospel fame , Franklin has faced and overcome numerous obstacles throughout his life .
He told Jonathan Landrum Jr. of The Associated Press how he personally learned how not to let fear prevail : `` I looked at the scriptures in the back of the Bible about fear .
I have those scriptures on my phone .
I had to transform myself from the inside out , rather than sitting on someone 's couch or taking somebody 's pill .
Instead of taking that pill , I 'll take the gospel pill . ''
Explaining the album 's overall theme , Franklin told Billboard magazine : `` People are dealing with a lot of stuff : money , gas , war , terrorism and natural disasters .
There 's a great sense of anxiety that 's a cloud over everything right now .
I thought it would be a good time to address that in people 's lives and in my own life .
As soon as I wrote those first few lines of ` Hello Fear , ' I knew that had to be the title . ''
