Bat For Lashes -LRB- Natasha Khan -RRB- opens her third album , The Haunted Man , with this song in which she 's thinking about her grandmother during the Second World War .
She told NME that with this record , `` I really wanted to go back in time and write songs about experiences that my grandmother might 've had when my grandfather was away at war , or that my mum might 've had with my dad ... There 's a lot of healing and putting things to rest ; just being kind to the people who 've done wrong because they 've been unconscious what they 're doing . ''
Khan penned this song one night on her couch after watching the 1970 film Ryan 's Daughter .
The movie tells the story of a young Irish woman who is bored with her marriage and has an affair with an English soldier .
The singer readily related to the woman 's feeling of emptiness .
`` There 's a scene where the female character is going out at night to meet this soldier , '' Khan recalled to Pitchfork : `` It 's dusk , there are all these lilies , and you can see how heady and fragrant the air is .
All the pollen is blowing on her skirt , and she 's looking at this man - it 's so sensual and exciting .
She 's been so deathly bored and trapped in her own existence .
That 's exactly how I felt . ''
After returning from New York and a failed relationship , Khan found herself in an empty flat in Brighton struggling with writer 's block .
The `` Thank God I 'm alive '' lyric was born out of a sense of desperation for inspiration to strike .
`` It was a desperate moment .
I was sitting on my sofa with my auto-harp and the whole song is about begging for inspiration , being dried up , alone , and waiting , '' she told The Independent .
`` Through writing the song I 'd taken myself from this desperate place to this feeling of existential joy . ''
We hear Khan singing ecstatically , `` Thank God I 'm alive , '' on this song 's refrain .
She explained to Mojo : `` Lilies is about letting go - it 's very pro-life .
I get very emotional singing the , ` Thank God I 'm alive ` bit , although other people have told me it 's quite uncomfortable to listen to something quite so ecstatic and open-chested . ''
Khan filmed the video at Hornet Workshop animation studio in Brooklyn .
For the song 's climax , she had to sit mouthing `` thank god I 'm alive ! ''
frame-by-frame for over nine hours , as part of a stop-motion sequence .
The clip 's director , Peter Sluszka , told NME : `` The most interesting sequences were the ones in which we animated Natasha .
I liked it when we encased her in the translucent armour .
That required a lot of pain on her part . ''
