The Orinoco River flows across South America .
It is about 1,300 miles long and goes through parts of Venezuela , Colombia and Brazil .
The song 's title refers to Orinoco Studios in London , in which this and the rest of the Watermark album was recorded .
It is not known if it was a dual reference to the South American river as well .
The words `` We can steer , we can near , with Rob Dickens at the wheel '' refer to Rob Dickins , the head of her record label WEA .
Dickins is listed as a producer on the album .
In an article published December 13 , 2008 , Dickins said : `` When I signed Enya , her manager/producer Nicky Ryan said , ` You 're not going to push us for singles , are you ? '
It was n't that kind of music .
After we 'd made the Watermark album , I said as a joke , ` Nicky , where 's the single ? '
A week later Nicky rang up and said , ` We 've got it ! '
Got what ?
` We 've got the single !
` He sent over what became ` Orinoco Flow . '
There was no middle eight , and ` Sail away ' was after every line - it drove me crazy , but there was something there that could be worked on .
Orinoco was the name of the studio and I think they saw me as the captain of the ship .
The whole thing was a metaphor for a journey for all of us.I was in charge of the record company for the UK and Ireland , but we never had any Irish music .
Someone said , ` You like Clannad , you 'd like this soundtrack album this ex-Clannad member has done . '
She 'd done the music for the BBC series The Celts .
I loved it and played it every night .
We met at an Irish awards ceremony and I said , ` You must do a vocal record . '
The record company thought I was mad , but I said what became a famous quote - ` Sometimes you sign acts to make money and sometimes you sign acts to make music . '
In the week of release , Tower Records phoned up to say that when they played the album in the shop they sold 45 copies - almost everyone in the shop had bought the record .
It was unheard of .
It went from 29 to five , then to # 1 and we sold bucketloads of albums .
It was totally rags to riches.It 's one of the things I 'm most proud of .
Funnily enough , I had n't even noticed the lyric until they printed the album .
It was embarrassing .
But when it went to # 1 I thought , ` I 'm in the lyric of a number one song , how fabulous . '
All these years later , if I hear that line ` Rob Dickins at the wheel ' I ca n't help smiling . ''
-LRB- thanks , John - Watford , England -RRB- The video was an extension of the Watermark album sleeve .
Enya commented -LRB- also in 1000 UK # 1 Hits -RRB- , `` We were so happy with the cover which was basically a picture of me , but there layers and layers of beautiful imagery revolving around me that were hand painted on , and this is what we achieved with the video . ''
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England , for above 2 -RRB- This was Enya 's first hit .
It got a lot of exposure and was released as a single after getting airplay on The Steve Wright Show on BBC Radio One in the UK .
Enya went on to become the best-selling female singer in the world .
The lyricist was Roma Ryan , the wife of the song 's producer Nicky Ryan .
In 1000 UK # 1 Hits by Jon Kutner and Spencer Leigh , Ryan said : `` Orinoco Flow was a very difficult song to work on , because we had it shelved a few times .
We would work on it for a while , leave it , then go back to it again , but in the end we said ` This is good . '
All the time it was an album track and only at the very end was it decided it might be good as a single . ''
In a bit of cinematic dissonance similar to the `` Singin ' In The Rain '' scene in A Clockwork Orange or the `` Stuck In The Middle With You '' scene in Reservoir Dogs , this song was used in a violent scene in the 2011 movie The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo .
According to the film 's director David Fincher , they liked the idea of the villain enjoying music when he kills , and the star of the movie Daniel Craig dialed up this song on his iPod .
They felt it was a great fit and used the song for the scene .
