This was Status Quo 's debut hit in the UK and their only hit in America .
It was originally intended to be a B-side to `` Gentleman Joe 's Sidewalk Cafe , '' but at the last minute they decided to swap the B-side and the A-side of the single .
Lead singer Francis Rossi wrote three quarters of this song on the toilet , where he 'd fled to escape his wife and mother-in-law .
The remainder he finished off in the lounge .
L.S. Lowry inspired another hit song , Brian and Michael 's 1978 UK chart topper `` Matchstalk Men and Matchstalk Cats and Dogs , '' which was a tribute to the then recently deceased Lowry 's life .
Also in 2006 the Manchester Rock band Oasis paid tribute to Lowry with the new music video for `` The Masterplan '' single .
The video , which was done to promote their new greatest hits CD , was done in the style of Lowry 's matchstick men paintings .
In 2002 , Death in Vegas had a # 14 hit in the UK with their track `` Scorpio Rising , '' which featured Liam Gallagher from Oasis on vocals .
The song was so similar to `` Pictures Of Matchstick Men '' that Status Quo were credited as co-writers .
Status Quo are best known in Britain for their no-nonsense , heads-down Boogie Rock which they have played since the 1970s , but this psychedelic effort is their best known hit in America and is a staple of oldies radio .
This song was inspired by the matchstick men paintings of L.S. Lowry -LRB- 1887-1976 -RRB- .
Lowry was an English painter who became famous for painting scenes of life in the industrial districts of northern England during the middle of the 20th century .
They were peopled with spindly human figures who looked like matchstick men .
Camper Van Beethoven covered this on their 1989 Key Lime Pie CD and it topped Billboard 's Modern Rock Tracks chart .
Ironically their vocalist at the time was the similarly named David Lowery .
If you picked up traces of this song in Status Quo 's 1974 # 1 UK hit `` Down Down , '' that 's because they used the intro to `` Matchstick Men '' as the basis for the verse melody .
In our interview with Francis Rossi , he explained that he realized after he wrote it that he had stolen from his own song .
