Working its way into the Top 40 Country charts after its release in 2009 , this song was the second single from Worley 's sixth studio album , Sounds Like Life .
In our interview with Darryl Worley , we found out that writing from the heart is the only way he knows how to do it .
He draws from his own life experiences , and says that if he does n't write `` real , '' then it just does n't work.So it might go without saying that this song is culled from personal experiences he 's either had or witnessed .
`` If I have any gift , it 's probably a knack for timing , and just writing songs about real life and things that engage people , '' he says .
`` Because that 's what radio obviously expects from me .
And so when we give them that , we have success .
And that 's what I do naturally .
So maybe all of that is a good thing .
`` So what was the personal experience that inspired this song ?
Worley told The Boot : `` A close friend 's wife had called and told me what was going on with her husband , and I went to him .
I went to this old rickety bar .
He was there , and I was trying to talk him out of that place , because he had been sober for seven or eight years .
I just hated to see him relapse like that .
He went down this laundry list of negative things , and that 's just what came out of my mouth : I said , ` Well , it sounds like life to me .
We 're all in the same boat ... ` What I told him was , ` You 've been in here for over an hour .
Let 's me and you go take a walk , and if we do n't see somebody in 15 minutes that 's in worse shape than either one of us , I 'll pay your bills for a month . '
The message was , it does n't matter how far down you get , if you open your eyes up and take your blinders off , you 'll see somebody in a matter of minutes that will make you go , ` OK , I get it now . '
Long story short , eventually I was able to coax him out of there and got him back home .
It was a happy ending.For years , I carried that song around with me , and I pitched it to several different writers .
Nobody seemed to get it .
So Phil O'Donnell and Wynn Varble were coming over to my house one day , and I had been working on it and had a little bit of a melody and lyrics .
I said , ` Look , you 've passed on this idea two or three different times now -LSB- but -RSB- I 'm writing this song .
We do n't have to write it today .
We can write something else .
But I 'm going to write this song , so if nobody wants to write it with me , I 'm going to write it by myself and I 'm going to get all the money ! '
Something about that must have spurred their interest , because a few hours later we had it finished , and we were off at a Mexican restaurant eating lunch ! ''
Worley wrote this song several years before he put it on one of his albums .
Other artists had already recorded it , but it had gone nowhere .
`` A lot of people have thought down through the years that it was a hit song .
But , '' says Worley , `` I knew it was a hit song , and I knew it well enough I could bet the single release on it .
And it proved to be a really big boost for my career at the time , we had a major hit .
And I could n't be more happy with it .
`` Maybe it was the honesty in his voice that folks related to , maybe it was the timing of the release .
`` Who knows , man ? ''
says Darryl .
`` I think everybody in the world , especially at the time of that release and now , could totally relate to that .
I do n't know how many people can say , ' I would have probably just thrown in the towel if it had n't been for that song .
But I just realized , hey , I 'm not the only one going through this , and I got ta get my butt up and get back in the swing of things , and find a way to make this work . ''
Worley co-wrote this song with Wynn Varble -LRB- who has also penned several of Worley 's other singles -RRB- and Phil O'Donnell .
Worley commented : `` What 's ironic about that song is Wynn , Phil and I wrote it several years ago , but it really speaks to what people are going through with their jobs and families right now . ''
