Lead singer Christian Lindskog : `` This was a possible title for the record for me .
It was one of the first things I wrote and was very much tied to the intro piece .
During my time in Africa I dealt with a lot of conflict about my feelings towards what I was seeing .
There is so much devastation it is hard not to become numb to it and just shut down .
When I came home I found the same thing was really true for everything we have to deal with from our TV sets .
I had n't seen any TV for 6 weeks and when I turned it back on I was so shocked by what I was seeing and I realized we become numb to the things that come out of our TV everyday .
The lyric was actually pretty much improvised in the studio .
It was one of the first vocals I did .
With every record we make it seems like I never have the lyrics ready until the last minute , and sometime not even then !
So I ended up working on things at the mic .
This was definitely one of those .
The idea of the frost in the grass is one I really love .
It always looks so beautiful when you see a field covered in frost .
I want to take my shoes off and run in it , but the reality is , ITS COLD .
And eventually its not just your feet that are cold , but your whole body .
People 's hearts are slowly becoming colder , emotions are being replaced , we want to escape from ourselves .
We are on a treadmill of performance but performance without purpose .
You can blame society but we are society .
Eventually what is in your heart makes you take a stand .
Drummer Marcus Dahlstrom : `` I have kind of a thing on the side writing electronic music .
I love it .
I have a lot of music like this and Simon heard this one track I was working on and thought we should turn it into a Blindside song .
I was a little unsure about how we would make it work but he found a way to translate the riff to the guitar .
So I started to play what I had programmed and we ended up with the basic structure of the song .
We experimented with this track a lot .
From this original idea to convert an electronic track to something more organic .
One night Lasse and I were in the studio fooling around with some delays to spice the song up a bit and we ended up with a very strange layering of delays .
We played around with some EQ and ended up with a very atmospheric piece that sounded nothing like the original song .
That actually turned into the basis for music beneath the intro .
Then Simon and Christian did there thing and then we had the intro !
I also played a second drum part at half speed on the end of this song and then we doubled it to bring it up to tempo .
It is the high sound you hear on the final chorus .
A lot of people think it is programming , but it is all live drums . ''
-LRB- thanks , Tim - PGH , PA , for above 2 -RRB-
