This song appears to tell the tale of a local misfit kid who drowns himself .
Spektor described it to Entertainment Weekly as `` a little science fiction story in a song .
Like a Twilight Zone episode . ''
Spektor admitted to Pitchfork Media that she was unaware of how big a name Lynne is in the music business , before she hooked up with him .
She admitted : `` It 's kind of funny .
Actually , it 's kind of sad - I did n't know who he was or what he had done when I asked him if he 'd like to produce some songs .
I 'm the opposite of a knowledgeable music aficionado ; tomorrow , I could discover an amazing artist that people have been listening to for the past 60 years and be , like , ` wow . '
The reason I asked to contact Jeff was because I saw he produced the last Tom Petty record , Highway Companion , which I really loved .
I noted him down so next time I did a record I could actually tell people , like , ' I have a few producers I 'd like to check out . '
I remember the silence on the phone when I said the name ` Jeff Lynne ' to Tom Whalley , the president of Warner Bros. .
But Tom was really positive about it.By the time I was about to meet Jeff I was sufficiently nervous .
But he 's really sweet .
We drank a lot of tea .
And after I worked with him , I started to understand , like , ` Oh yeah !
That 's Jeff - I know that song . '
Sometimes you know the song or voice but you have no idea who sings it .
But Jeff 's definitely in the world of legends .
He had these banjoleles - a mix between a banjo and a ukulele - and I picked one up and he was like , ` Yeah , George -LSB- Harrison -RSB- gave that to me . '
I was like , ` Oh my god , ' and then put it down . ''
This song was produced by Jeff Lynne -LRB- ELO , Tom Petty , George Harrison , Traveling Wilburys -RRB- , who also accompanies Spektor with his voice .
The Russian born singer-songwriter said in publicity materials that Lynne , got her to do something she 'd thought impossible before .
She said : `` On the last record I started harmonizing with myself for the first time , but I never sang with someone else on my records .
His voice is so beautiful .
It was a singing choir with Jeff and once we started doing it we did it on a bunch of songs . ''
Jeff Lynne told Q magazine August 2009 : `` It 's a bizarre song , but it 's amazing .
She said to me she treated it like a short story-and what it means is what you think it means . ''
