With lyrics such as `` then you cut out all the letters that make up this note '' and `` I wo n't , I wo n't give up , until I find you , '' this is plainly about a kidnapping .
Lyrically , Cedric Bixler-Zavala employed `` disappearance '' as a loose theme for Octahedron , inspired by the culture of kidnapping that has infected the duo 's home town of El Paso and across the border in Mexico .
In particular Bixler-Zavala had in mind the disappearance of two friends from El Paso , Tarzan and Pat .
He explained to ilikemusic.com : `` Lyrically , I wanted to incorporate elements of traditional songs .
So that it would sound like our world had these handed down , traditional songs that were to do with real random vanishings and kidnappings .
That is a big part of Latin culture .
People get kidnapped all the time .
I wanted to cover everything .
Right from the exhilarating feeling you get when you put the ransom note down , the adrenaline rush when you realise a loved one has been taken from you , followed by that bleak , dismal area of not knowing what to do .
Especially if you do n't come from money .
We had two friends that we knew from Texas who just randomly vanished .
We 've never known whether they just took off or if they met foul play .
I found it an interesting subject matter to tackle .
I wanted the lyrics to instil that bleak feeling you can get from living somewhere like El Paso .
Even though I have n't lived at home for ages , it 's still with me .
The stories that come from across the border still hit home really hard .
I just wanted to have a soundtrack for that really . ''
Nicolaus Copernicus -LRB- 1473-1543 -RRB- was the Polish astronomer who put forth the theory that the Earth and the planets of the solar system revolved around the sun .
Bixler-Zavala 's lyrics are often very abstract and it is difficult to decipher why this song was titled after the Pole .
This was how the San Antonio Express April 13 , 1993 reported the disappearance of Tarzan and Pat : `` A search resumed Monday for two El Paso boaters missing at Elephant Butte Lake .
Patrick Shied , 18 , and Tarzan Arguillez , 19 , were reported missing about 3:30 p.m. Saturday .
Maj. Frank Taylor , state police spokesman in Santa Fe , said searchers have found a rowboat the two had taken to Jet Boat Cove .
Only a life jacket was on board . ''
