Lenny Kravitz helped Madonna write and produce this sultry song , where Madonna whispers most of the lyrics .
It was the first single from her highly-anticipated Immaculate Collection compilation album , and created plenty of sales-generating controversy for the singer , who was known for pushing the limits of sexual content .
This samples a beat from a Public Enemy song called `` Security Of The First World , '' an instrumental from their album It Takes A Nation Of Millions To Hold Us Back .
Public Enemy used many samples themselves , so they did n't sue Madonna or Kravitz .
Public Enemy 's producer , Hank Shocklee , capitalized on the publicity by having a group called the Young Black Teenagers record an answer song using the same beat called `` To My Donna . ''
The video was parodied on an episode of Saturday Night Live that Madonna guest hosted .
In a Wayne 's World skit , Garth appears as one of the dancers .
After this was banned by MTV , it was released for sale as a video .
Aided by the controversy , it eventually sold over 1 million copies .
Ingrid Chavez , a singer who had worked with Prince , sued for royalties from this , claiming she wrote it with Kravitz .
It was settled out of court and Chavez got a composer credit along with Kravitz and Madonna .
The video contained partial nudity .
MTV banned it , but eventually agreed to play it late at night .
With the controversy brewing over the video , ABC aired it on Nightline , with anchor Forrest Sawyer asking Madonna questions about the video as it ran .
It was unusual for an entertainment story to be the focus of Nightline , but this raised censorship issues .
It also did n't hurt that Madonna was a huge star and was sure to draw lots of viewers .
While the video played , Madonna talked about how women in her videos are always in control sexually .
This was one of 2 new songs released on Madonna 's Greatest Hits album Immaculate Collection .
The other was `` Rescue Me . ''
The video was shot at a Paris hotel .
It featured Madonna 's boyfriend at the time , Tony Ward .
