This song tells the story of one very weird day the band spent in Amsterdam .
Frontman Neil Finn recalled to Spinner UK : `` That was one of the strangest days of my life .
That was n't on the same trip -LRB- as the events described in the Intriguer track `` Falling Dove '' -RRB- , but there is a slight European thread to the record , unusual events in foreign locations .
But Amsterdam is a very mixed bag as a city I think .
In many ways it 's fantastic , but at five in the morning after a very long night it feels a little bit like it 's not peace-loving freedom for all any more .
It was a big city for us , early on in Split Enz , we spent a lot of time there because we did quite well .
Amsterdam was the most exciting city on Earth .
We 'd go straight to Paradiso and have our ` selection . '
The idea you could buy pot in any amount from anywhere in the world , it felt very exciting .
It had an exuberance then , a true hippy mentality .
Which now seems a little faded .
There are still good things about it .
But this in particular was one harrowing day ... still , we got a good song out of it . ''
Finn described to Spinner the difficulties of writing on the road : `` It is difficult to write on the road but it 's good to have experiences and just record them , and then later on they come back .
I never find it easy to write on the road , you 're scattered and a little bit betwixt and between .
It 's good to seek experience and not stay in your shell , and you process it , and then you get home .
And those things come back and you get some rewards for them .
But it 's very easy to drift through it and get to the end of it .
But it 's a great asset early in your life to keep a journal or have a tape recorder handy .
All those things are valuable as a writer , it 's surprising how difficult it is to maintain.I think on the fringes of travelling there are great stories to be found , but if you 're just writing about your experiences of being in airports and missing planes or being out all night drinking and whoring , that 's not very interesting . ''
