The Go-Go 's have always written their own songs , and this was composed by their three primary songwriters : Kathy Valentine , Charlotte Caffey and Jane Wiedlin , who told us : '' ` Vacation ' was Kathy 's song , and Kathy was the last Go-Go to join .
She joined at the beginning of '81 and she brought that song with her from her band , The Textones .
We really loved the song , but it did n't really have a chorus .
So Charlotte and I ended up working with Kathy a little bit more on the song , and sort of Go-Go-fying it , basically adding the chorus .
But that storyline was one about having a summer romance , thinking that it was all just for fun and games , and then later realizing that you actually love . ''
TV shows that have used this song include The Simpsons , Rugrats , Duckman and Scrubs .
It was also used in the movie Fahrenheit 9/11 and performed by Kelly Clarkson to open the 2003 movie From Justin To Kelly .
The iconic video shows The Go-Go 's water skiing , although it 's pretty obvious that the girls themselves are not in the water .
They look a little spaced-out at times in the video , and Wiedlin told us why : `` Well , we were at the A&M sound stage , and it was a big budget video , because of course by that time we were really popular , because it was our second album , and our first album had sold like , I do n't know , over 2 million copies or something .
So we had a lot of money to do the video , which was the first time for us , because the other videos we just spent , like $ 5,000 on or something .
And it was fun , but it was a way of working that we were n't accustomed to .
And I remember it being a really long day , like a 14-hour day , and about 8 hours into it we all were getting really bored and restless , so we started drinking .
But by the time they actually shot the scene where we 're on the water skis , skiing one-handed and waving and stuff , we were all really looped .
It 's so funny , if you look at us , look in our eyes in those parts , we 're all like cross-eyed drunk.Go-Go 's always made fun of everything .
So of course , we were making fun of the whole thing all along .
And we were very resistant to following orders , or to acting , because we were n't actors .
But yeah , even thought we had become America 's sweethearts , we were still basically punk rockers at heart . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Jane Wiedlin , where she talks about why the Go-Go 's are like Twinkies . -RRB-
The Go-Go 's were the most successful all-girl Pop group to write their own songs , but this success took a toll on the band and they broke up in 1984 , just three years after their first album came out .
After re-forming in 1990 , they stayed together on-and-off until their farewell tour in 2010 .
They became very famous very fast , but they also worked for it , playing gnarly Punk clubs in Los Angeles for a few years before getting a record deal .
So how did this Punk group end up with some of the best-remembered Pop hits of the '80s ?
In our interview with Charlotte Caffey , she explained : `` When I brought in the songs to The Go-Go 's for the first time , they were very melodic and very pop .
And it was terrifying to bring them in .
Because I was like , Oh my God , they 're gon na shoot me down , this is gon na be horrible , blah blah blah .
But what we did with them was kind of brilliant .
We took those pop songs and those melodies and , with our beginning kind of inability to play , still made them great .
You know , like maybe an early Green Day , there 's maybe a roughness , even though they play very well .
But there 's like distorted guitars playing really pop melodies .
That 's exactly what we did .
And so I never wavered in my songwriting .
We were just a beginning band trying to find ourselves , and then that first record was produced a certain way that we were n't happy about in the beginning , but then we were fine with afterwards . ''
