This pensive , acoustic mumber is the opening track from Who I Am , the debut album from Nick Jonas & the Administration and Nick Jonas 's second album without the Jonas Brothers .
Jonas explained to USA Today why he recorded away from his brothers : `` I had written five or six songs that were on my heart , things that were just pouring out of me with this new and exciting sound .
They were n't necessarily right for the Jonas Brothers , but I thought they could be perfect for something else . ''
Jonas told Billboard magazine about this cut : `` That was the first song I wrote for the record .
It 's a story about a young girl who finds her safe place in the rose garden - wherever it is in life where you feel most comfortable , where you can be yourself , where you can find love or just be alone if you need to . ''
Nick cut the album in eight days with Jonas Brothers ' longtime producer John Fields , who also played bass .
Additional members of the Administration include drummer Michael Bland , guitarist David Ryan Harris and keyboardist Tommy Barbarella , the latter having played in the New Power Generation .
Jonas told USA Today : `` We would set up in individual booths and play simultaneously .
There are very few overdubs on the record .
Some songs are full live .
It has a raw , late - '60s / early - '70s rock/soul sound . ''
Nick admitted to Time Out that this song was in part inspired by a difficult break-up .
He said : `` I think it did have a personal connection with me , but it was also a story I was trying to tell , a story that , yes , I did feel a connection to personally , and there was something I could relate it to , but I also wanted it to be general -- about how everyone can find their safe place in the rose garden , whether it 's a person in their life , an actual place or a thing that makes them feel safe .
There are some songs that are personal , about relationships and things , but what I 've tried to do , like my idol Elvis Costello does , is kind of put a disguise on it .
We speak a little more literally in Jonas Brothers songs , and this one I wanted to disguise with a story . ''
