This features Afro-Beat musician Femi Kuti .
Dennen told About.com about working with Kuti : `` That was one of the most positive , intense , creative experiences I 've ever had .
He comes from an incredible family of musicians .
His father 's a highly respected musician ... I think he 's a really powerful person .
Everything he says is full of similes and metaphors , and it 's really inspiring to be around him .
I was really inspired . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The pairing between Dennen and Kuti was orchestrated by Downtown head Josh Deutsch , whose company publishes Kuti 's music .
Dennen explained to Billboard magazine : `` He 's been wanting to break me into a mainstream format , but to also break Femi that way as well .
When he heard me demo the song , he was like , ` Man , I hear Femi on this .
I was like , ` How are you going to get Femi Kuti ? '
He says , ` Well , I happen to publish him . '
So we met in the studio -- he flew in from Lagos -LSB- Nigeria -RSB- to be a part of the record . ''
Dennen told Rolling Stonemagazine : `` I made the song catchy but it 's about all the injustice in the world . ''
Dennen told the The Austin-American Statesman : `` That song came to me in a couple different stages .
I wrote most of the lyrics sitting at my desk in my bedroom looking out the window .
I was thinking that I wanted to write another song like ` Ai n't No Reason , ' which is about a lot of different things in the world happening at once .
But I wanted to show a different side of it , so I chose to look at the psychological effect that social issues have on people .
I was asked to play a couple songs at this awards show honoring people in film and TV industry that were dealing with issues of mental illness .
Right after I played , this woman said to the audience , ` All the pressures in the world and the modern corporate culture and all the stress and strains , that alone is enough to make somebody go crazy .
On top of that , you add social injustice . '
She made the point that she did n't understand how more people are n't going absolutely insane .
What kind of drugs are we using to suppress that ?
I immediately had to write that down .
I was like , #Yeah , exactly !
` So , I wrote the lyrics in one sitting , but I did n't have a melody .
Well , I had one , but I did n't like it because it was a slow folk song like ` Ai n't No Reason . '
I was n't really interested in doing that at all .
We went and recorded the whole album and I still had n't -LRB- finished -RRB- the song .
I did n't think it was going to make the album , but a melody popped into my head on the second to the last night of recording.I was really inspired by working with -LRB- Femi Kuti -RRB- .
I wanted to do a sort of Brazilian dance pop song .
I came up with the melody on my bike ride home and immediately found the lyrics that I 'd written before and worked them together .
I took it into the studio the next morning and we all learned it and cut it that day .
We sent the mp3 file to my label , and they were like , ` Keep working on this song .
We want it to be the first single ! ' ''
