Several months after signing a record deal with Virgin in 2009 , Green nearly died after being stabbed in the neck with a broken bottle .
This was one of many setbacks he 'd suffered throughout his troubled life and he 'd had enough .
This reflective track finds Green recounting how his success as a rapper could n't erase the pain of his chequered past before giving credit to his pal Lily Allen for helping him get where he is today .
`` That summer , I really thought about jacking it all in , '' he recalled to The Guardian .
`` I was back selling drugs , harder stuff , stuff I do n't even really condone .
As I say on the record , ' I was selling wraps of coke , not raps and flows . '
Then , from one conversation with Lily Allen , it really did change direction .
She picked me up and put me back on my feet . ''
Speaking to The Daily Star , Green elaborated about the background to this track .
`` I 've been happy for a while , but that was n't always the case .
I talk about it in my new song , Today I Cried .
I expected to find happiness once I became successful and it shocked me when I did n't .
That 's why I wrote the song , to get across that feeling -- ' I should be happy , so why are n't I ? '
Writing it helped me understand why I was n't happy .
Do n't get me wrong , I 'm not saying fame is terrible -- there are a lot of perks.But , while touring my first album , Alive Till I 'm Dead , I felt like crying a lot of the time .
All of my issues came to the surface .
Everything was magnified when I became successful , so my feelings were magnified too -- it was a roller-coaster of emotions all the time.I was n't sleeping , which made everything feel 10 times as bad .
I 'm not saying Today I Cried should be a warning to people who want to be famous , because those people wo n't be deterred just by a song . ''
The song finds Green spitting about the unsatisfactory nature of sudden fame .
`` While I was working so hard for this I had the idea that if it eventually worked , then it would solve all my problems , '' he told Q magazine .
`` Obviously success did n't fix me , it ca n't . ''
