This is the second official single and opening track for Madonna 's twelfth studio album , titled MDNA .
The singer produced the song with the Italian DJ and electro house music producer Benny Benassi and his cousin Alle Benassi .
There was also another hullabaloo stirred up by the song title .
Joe Francis , who owns the libidinous video franchise Girls Gone Wild , threatened to sue Madonna if she sang the song during her performance at the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show .
The NFL later announced that the song would not be performed but it was mission accomplished for Francis , having succeeded in creating some publicity for his videos .
This was originally titled `` Girls Gone Wild . ''
There were claims that Madonna changed its name because of threats from Joe Francis .
However , her manager , Guy Oseary , told TMZ that they decided to make the word `` Girl '' singular because that 's the way Madonna sings it in the song .
He added that Billboard had published a story that claims there are around 50 songs called `` Girls Gone Wild , '' including records by Ludacris , Jagged Edge , T Mills , and Lil Rick .
This was only the second single released by Madonna after she signed a lucrative record deal with Universal Music Group 's Interscope , but the singer found herself straight away stirring up beef with one of her new label mates : Rapper 50 Cent had been recording a single with the same title and he took to twitter to publicly voice his anger at what he saw as a snub from his label .
The song was co-written with the young Vancouver-based songwriter Jenson Vaughan , who has worked with UK producer Ian Carey , on collaborations with such artists as Timbaland , Kelly Rowland and Snoop Dogg .
Both Vaughan and the Benassi cousins are signed with Patrick Moxey 's dance music label Ultra Music .
Speaking with Billboard magazine , Moxey traced the song 's beginning back to early 2011 , when he suggested to Benny Benassi that his aggressive style might , `` work well with some of the major American superstar artists , '' so he requested additional tracks from the Italian producer and his cousin.Moxey selected a few tracks and shared them with Vaughan .
`` I was really attracted to his lyrics , '' said the label owner , `` and I feel Benassi in my bones , because those bass-driven tracks are so inspiring .
It 's a bit like cooking , like , ` Ooh , what would this sound like together ? '
`` Vaughn returned a demo just a week later , which Moxey passed onto Benassi 's European co-manager Paul Sears .
He in turn sent it to Guy Oseary , Madonna 's manager , who loved the tracks .
Both `` Girl '' and `` I 'm Addicted '' made it onto MDNA .
The steamy black-and-white video was directed by fashion photographers Mert and Marcus , who also did MDNA 's artwork .
It finds Madonna going wild as she gets raunchy with several shirtless , hot male dancers .
Critics said it is an homage to the Queen of Pop 's '90s - era sexually explicit style , referencing such erotic clips as the one for `` Justify My Love . ''
