This Soul-Pop ballad is the debut single by English singer and 2010 X Factor runner-up Rebecca Ferguson .
She penned the song with Eg White , the man behind such hits as Will Young 's `` Leave Right Now '' and Adele 's `` Chasing Pavements . ''
The song was released November 27 , 2011 , a week before Ferguson 's debut album Heaven was made available .
Ferguson told the Daily Star Sunday that she is proud that she contributed so much to the writing of Heaven .
`` At the beginning , '' she said , `` they did n't know I could write so they were bringing songs in for me but I put my foot down and said if you want me to be a credible artist you have to let me write .
Now I 've co-written every single song on the album . ''
Ferguson had been desperate to be a singer since primary school but until her successful run on X-Factor , her music career consisted of a succession of failed auditions and broken dreams .
This song finds her singing about the fickle side of fame and how love is the only thing that matters .
She explained to The Sun .
`` When I was obsessed with making it , I thought about what made me happy .
It was n't a big house , a car or money .
It was my family and my kids .
If you have n't got nothing , you 've got nothing . ''
A few months after coming second in X Factor , Ferguson started dating Zayn Malik from fellow finalists , One Direction .
However , the couple broke up a few months later .
Speaking to the Daily Star Sunday , Ferguson admitted that their split , as well as some of her other past relationships , influenced the lyrics that she wrote for Heaven .
She confessed : `` I wrote a lot of tracks about what was happening to me at the time I was making the album , and that includes things with Zayn .
A lot of the songs are about past relationships .
The theme is relationships in general , making them , breaking them , love and loss .
Recording was hard .
It was n't a case of skipping to the studio and being happy.I got really emotional and sometimes I had really bad days .
I poured out all my heart and soul into the album and would often cry . ''
The emotional ballad finds Ferguson looking for hope in love amidst the obstacles of every day existence .
`` Maybe the man in charge does n't like my face , '' she sings , `` but then this world 's not always good , and nothing 's real but love '' .
`` It 's real life , '' Ferguson told The Daily Telegraph .
`` We 're all trying to find something , everyone 's looking for the missing piece , and we pursue the wrong things thinking that 's where it 's gon na be . ''
