This the first single from Kiss ' 2009 album Sonic Boom , the American rock band 's first new album in 11years .
The set was produced by Kiss co-leader Paul Stanley and is the first to feature guitarist Tommy Thayer and drummer Eric Singer -LRB- who replaced founding members Ace Frehley and Peter Criss -RRB- .
In Canada and the US the retailer Wal-Mart is the sole distributor of Sonic Boom .
Co-leader Gene Simmons explained why to Billboard magazine : `` The world 's a different place .
I 'm not a fan of downloading for free .
I do n't believe in anything for free .
The kids next door that we think are sweet and have freckled faces were never punished for stealing everything .
You can literally point to a million people out of work - the truckers that truck the records to the stores , the stores themselves that used to hire people , the gasoline they used , the warehouses - an entire industry is wiped out because some college kid did n't want to pay for songs .
And who 's to blame ?
The record industry , for never having a repercussion.If you try to break into my house , I 'll shoot your head off .
Are you out of your f -- king mind ?
But fans were allowed to break into stuff that people created and simply take it without paying for it , and that is nobody 's fault but the record industry .
It was lax .
Wal-Mart is a real company .
We met the Walton people - they 're fine upstanding people , we 're big fans of them , and they give millions of people jobs and we 're all for it .
And they 're willing to charge for the product .
Last time I checked , Kiss is not a charity .
I will let you know when I want to give my stuff away for free .
I do n't want you to determine that . ''
The original `` Delilah '' was a Philistine temptress in the Old Testament whom the Israelite Samson fell in love with .
She persuaded the biblical hero to reveal the secret of his great strength and betrayed him to his enemies .
The `` Delilah '' in this song is a similar present day femme fatale .
Talking about the song on Kissonline , Paul Stanley said : `` When I came up with the riff , the spirit was more -LRB- Kiss ' 1976 song -RRB- ' I Want You ' - early Kiss .
There are only so many notes in a scale . ''
-LRB- thanks , DeeTheWriter - Saint Petersburg , Russia Federation -RRB-
