This was written by Jim Steinman , who wrote all of Meat Loaf 's hits , including `` Paradise By The Dashboard Light , '' `` Two Out Of Three Ai n't Bad , '' and `` I 'll Do Anything For Love -LRB- But I Wo n't Do That -RRB- . ''
Like these Meat Loaf songs , this uses elaborate production and is very long , running 6:51 .
Bonnie Tyler is from Swansea , Wales .
This was the first record by a Welsh artist to top the US chart .
Drummer Max Weinberg and keyboardist Roy Bittan , who are both members of Bruce Springsteen 's E-Street band , played on this .
So did Rick Derringer , a guitarist who was a member of The McCoys -LRB- `` Hang On Sloopy '' -RRB- and had a hit on his own with `` Rock and Roll , Hootchie Koo . ''
A wedding band sings a surprisingly vulgar version of this in the movie Old School .
It was performed by The Dan Band , which is a real group specializing in obscene versions of songs made popular by female singers .
-LRB- thanks , Natasha - Chico , CA -RRB- In 1995 , a version by Nicki French reached US # 2 and UK # 5 .
In 2003 , a version by Jan Wayne reached UK # 28 .
The distinctive `` Turn Around , Bright Eyes '' backup vocals were sung by the male vocalist Rory Dodd , who has appeared on many of Jim Steinman 's productions and sang backup on albums by Carly Simon , Barry Manilow , Barbra Streisand , Lou Reed and many others .
The gothic video , with Bonnie Tyler clad all in white , was story-boarded by Jim Steinman and was inspired by the film Future World , the follow-up to the Yul Brunner futuristic thriller Westworld .
It was filmed at Holloway Asylum , which was built by a doctor out of the proceeds of a drug he 'd invented to help his patients.The video was directed by Russell Mulcahy , who worked on many of the early videos for Elton John , Billy Joel and Fleetwood Mac .
He says that the scene where a shirtless young boy throws a dove into the camera - which was Steinman 's idea - earned him the wrath of Tyler .
Mulcahy said in the book I Want My MTV : `` Bonnie came around the corner and screamed , in her Welch accent , ` You 're nothing but a f -- king pre-vert ! '
And she stormed off .
There was nothing perverse intended . ''
This featured in a much talked about 2012 ad-campaign for the Australian bank , Westpac , in which Tyler walks across water as she sings the song at a wedding .
According to an October 26 , 2006 article in the Australian newspaper The Herald Sun , Steinman first offered this song , along with `` Making Love Out Of Nothing At All '' to Meat Loaf for his 1983 album Midnight At The Lost And Found .
For financial reasons , Meat 's record company wanted him to write his own songs for the album , so this song went to Tyler and `` Making Love Out Of Nothing At All '' went to Air Supply .
This entered the UK charts at # 1 , making Tyler the first female singer to do so .
This played a major role in the 2001 movie Bandits .
Cate Blanchett 's character loves the song , describing it as `` The ultimate haiku to the complexity of love . ''
She soon finds out that Bruce Willis ' character also loves the song , and their relationship develops .
This is featured in Urban Legends -LRB- the first one -RRB- when at the beginning of the movie a girl is driving in her car and the killer is in the back seat .
She puts this song on and starts singing to it before having her head chopped off .
-LRB- thanks , Kathleen - Berthierville , Canada -RRB- Ever wonder how Bonnie Tyler got that raspy voice ?
After years of singing in nightclubs in Wales , she developed throat nodules and required surgery in 1976 .
After the operation , her voice developed the distinctive rasp you hear on this song .
This went on to sell over 5 million records worldwide .
It won the Variety Club award in the UK for best single of 1983 .
The song was performed in the Glee episode `` Bad Reputation '' on May 8 , 2010 .
The subsequent single release debuted at # 16 on the Hot 100 with 134,000 digital sales .
Out of all the Glee singles , only the cast 's debut effort , `` Do n't Stop Believin ' , '' has registered a bigger sales week-177 ,000 in its first 7 days .
