This is the title track of American country-folk singer-songwriter Emmylou Harris ' 22nd major label studio album .
The disc was produced by Jay Joyce -LRB- Patty Griffin , Jack Ingram , Cage the Elephant -RRB- , with whom she 'd previously recorded a theme for the romantic drama , Nights in Rodanthe .
It was cut in a mere four weeks at a Nashville studio , with only Harris , Joyce , and multi-instrumentalist Giles Reaves .
`` We did the whole thing with just three musicians , me being one of them , '' said Emmylou .
`` Jay , the producer , and Giles Reeves play everything between them .
It 's not a stripped down record though ; there 's only one song that 's a little bare bones .
I 'm basically a slow ballad-y person , but Jay managed to really move the songs up a bit .
But they still have the same emotional feel . ''
Harris told Spinner UK : `` The song ` Hard Bargain , ' I had in mind for a few years .
In fact , I wanted to cut it on the last record ; for some reason , we just did n't .
But when I played it for Jay Joyce - who produced my current record - he loved it .
I do n't know Ron very well , I have met him only a few times , but I am a fan of his music .
Just about every singer-songwriter that you meet thinks Ron has hung the moon . ''
This sparsely arranged track was originally recorded by the Canadian singer-songwriter Ron Sexsmith on his 2004 album , Retriever .
The song describes a lover , friend , or even a guardian angel who repeatedly pulls someone back from the brink of falling apart .
Said Harris , `` I 'm just grateful to have discovered the song .
It was there for the plucking .
Jay really loved it too and then we ended up calling the album Hard Bargain because it just seemed to tie everything together .
The people in your life , and the joy of life , will always bring you back no matter what , and I think that 's echoed in every song in a way .
I may be stretching things a little bit but if you had to , ` Hard Bargain ' would sum up this particular song cycle . ''
