This was written for the movie The Graduate , starring Anne Bancroft as Mrs. Robinson , a middle age woman who seduces the much younger Dustin Hoffman .
Although Bancroft has had a long and successful film career , she is still best known for her part in this movie .
Paul Simon was a much bigger fan of Mickey Mantle than Joe DiMaggio .
On The Dick Cavett Show , Simon was asked by Mantle why he was n't mentioned in the song instead of DiMaggio .
Simon replied , `` It 's about syllables , Mick .
It 's about how many beats there are . ''
Simon began writing this as `` Mrs. Roosevelt . ''
He changed it to `` Mrs. Robinson '' for the movie .
He may have written this about Eleanor Roosevelt .
Some of the lyrics support this such as `` We 'd like to help you learn to help yourself .
Look around you , all you see are sympathetic eyes '' and `` Going to the candidates debate .
Laugh about it , shout about it .
When you 've got to choose .
Every way you look at it , you lose . ''
Roosevelt was a female rights and black rights activist , always helping everyone but herself during the Great Depression .
A lot of the time she seemed to have been running the country as much as FDR , but never would have actually won the presidency because she was female .
-LRB- thanks , Megan - Rochester , NY -RRB- Frank Sinatra covered this on his 1969 album My Way .
He changed the words , adding some of his own jive and making reference to the movie The Graduate .
According to a `` making of '' feature on The Graduate DVD , Paul Simon did not originally write a full-length version of this song , only the verses that are heard in the movie .
After the movie became a hit , he finished the lyrics and recorded the full version that is known today .
-LRB- thanks , Snatchworth - Seattle , WA -RRB- Many top session musicians recorded with Simon & Garfunkel , including drummer Hal Blaine , who played on this and considers it one of his favorites .
Learn about this song and its use in The Graduate in Song Images .
Regarding the famous line , `` Where have you gone Joe DiMaggio ? ''
: DiMaggio was a star baseball player for the New York Yankees who was briefly married to Marilyn Monroe .
Simon was using him to represent heroes of the past .
DiMaggio was a little miffed when he heard this , since he was still very much alive even though he retired from baseball in 1951 , but he realized that he had become a new icon now with the baby boomer generation due to this song 's success.Simon , who is a huge fan of The Yankees , explained in a 1990 interview with SongTalk magazine : `` The Joe DiMaggio line was written right away in the beginning .
And I do n't know why or where it came from .
It seems so strange , like it did n't belong in that song and then , I do n't know , it was so interesting to us that we just kept it .
So it 's one of the most well-known lines that I 've ever written . ''
When DiMaggio died in 1999 , it was a very emotional event for many baseball fans who grew up watching him play .
The part of this song that mentions him summed of the feelings of many people who felt there was no one left to look up to .
Simon wrote an editorial about DiMaggio in The New York Times shortly after his death .
Simon & Garfunkel 's `` The Sound Of Silence '' and `` Scarborough Fair '' were also used in The Graduate , but they had appeared on earlier albums .
This was not heard until the movie opened .
This would have had a good chance to win an Oscar for Best Song From A Movie , but it was never nominated because Simon & Garfunkel never filled out the forms to get it considered , leaving `` Talk To The Animals '' from Doctor Dolittle as the winner .
Simon explained , `` It was the '60s , we just were n't paying attention . ''
It took 35 years , but Simon finally was nominated for an Oscar in 2003 for his song `` Father And Daughter , '' which was used in The Wild Thornberry 's Movie .
This song won the Grammy Award for Record of the Year in 1969 .
The award was first given out in 1959 , and in the '60s , songs like `` Moon River '' and `` I Left My Heart in San Francisco '' won the award .
`` Mrs. Robinson '' was the first Record of the Year with ties to Rock music .
A cover version of this song was recorded and charted by the '90s group Lemonheads .
Their single peaked at US # 8 on the US Modern Rock chart in 1992 , and hit # 19 on the UK Pop chart .
The Lemonheads were asked to record the song for the 25th anniversary release of The Graduate , prompting Lemonhead Evan Dando to comment , `` Some people , probably wearing Italian shoes , said , ` Hmmm , we need to get The Graduate out to more of a flannel-wearing kind of audience . ''
Dando would later say , `` I 'm more proud of my own songs than the version of ` Mrs. Robinson , ' which frankly I can take or leave -- mostly leave . ''
