Holly Brook Hafermann , -LRB- born February 23 , 1986 -RRB- , better known by her stage name Skylar Grey , is an American multi-instrumentalist , singer , songwriter , and record producer .
Hafermann was originally signed to Linkin ' Park 's Machine Shop Records under the name Holly Brook after guitarist Brad Delson heard her demo tape and in 2005 she was a vocalist on Fort Minor 's # 4 Hot 100 hit `` Where 'd You Go . ''
-LRB- The group was a side project of Linkin Park rapper Michael Shimoda -RRB- .
The following year Haferman released her debut album , Like Blood Like Honey before maintaining a low profile for a few years .
By 2010 she had changed her stage name to Skylar Grey and had signed a production deal on producer Alex da Kid 's Wonderland Music imprint .
Hafermann returned to the public attention when she was a guest vocalist on a couple of hit singles , Dr Dre 's `` I Need a Doctor '' and Diddy-Dirty Money 's `` Coming Home . ''
She also received a Grammy nomination for writing the chorus to Eminem 's hit single with Rihanna , `` Love The Way You Lie . ''
Grey told Billboard magazine why she chose to release this vulnerable track as the lead single from her Invinsible album .
`` It 's the very beginning of the story that I 'm telling on this album , so chronologically , it makes sense to release that part of my story first '' she explained .
`` I was depressed and broke and had nobody around and was feeling invisible to the world .
That 's what that song 's about , that very first step ... and so , within the album , you go on that journey of how I became invincible , and I think it 's gon na be a story that a lot of people can relate to . ''
This is the first single and title track from her debut album , under her Skylar Grey moniker .
The song was produced by Alex Da Kid and written by the singer with Rob Thomas and finds her crooning about being unnoticed and ignored .
It was released to radio on June 16 , 2011 .
It was Marilyn Manson who suggested titling the album `` Invinsible '' to communicate Grey 's journey from being invisible to invincible .
The shock rocker guests on her track `` Ca n't Haunt Me .
`` Grey later announced that she was changing the album title to Do n't Look Down and that this single would not appear on the record .
