This is the opening track from Thank Me Later , the debut album from Canadian rapper Drake .
The song was produced by Drake 's frequent collaborator Noah `` 40 '' Shebib and features Alicia Keys singing the hook .
Drake told MTV News why this track opens the album .
`` The song itself is the first song on the album ; I think it 's the biggest indicator of what the album is gon na be like , '' he said .
`` That 's why I picked that song to go first , and that 's why I wrote the first verse like that .
It 's really where I am in my life right now .
I know they 're looking forward to the album , so I want them to get a feel of how the story starts off . ''
Drake told The New York Times about his time with Rihanna , which began with an invite to pen a track for her .
`` I was a pawn , '' he said .
`` You know what she was doing to me ?
She was doing exactly what I 've done to so many women throughout my life , which is show them quality time , then disappear .
I was like , ` Wow , this feels terrible . ' ''
In Billboard magazine Drake explained this song in which he raps about his relationship with mentor Lil Wayne , a short-lived fling with pop star Rihanna and his parents ' divorce .
Said Drake : `` I took the time on that song and every single verse to be really honest about questions that I never , ever answer .
I guess the sort of fear that me and Wayne will be driven apart by the fact that I actively did gain success as an artist , and I always worry that sometimes that might drive a wedge between us , which I pray it never will and which I say in the song .
In the second verse , I address the relationship that I 'm often questioned about and I duck and dodge questions about it .
In the third one , I talk about my parents .
So really , it 's just one of those songs where to listen to it in a room full of people makes me feel awkward , and that 's a good thing to me .
I 'm really proud of that song .
`` The Canadian rapper concluded : `` I kept having this reoccurring dream that I was standing in this field by where my uncle used to play golf and coincidentally , where my uncle played golf and where my grandfather is buried are right beside each other .
I kept having this dream that I was standing in the middle of that field and watching these fireworks go off .
For a really long time I was trying to figure out what it all meant , and I guess the conclusion that I came to was , I 'm at a very triumphant point in my life .
I think I can make a lot of things happen for not only myself but a lot of people around me . ''
