`` 911 is a Joke '' is remarkable for being a Public Enemy song which made it to the Top-40 on the Billboard chart .
This only happened one other time , with `` Give It Up '' at # 33 in 1994 .
Of course , an act like Public Enemy jeers at the Billboard charts when it notices them at all , but that makes this all the more remarkable .
We 'd like to point out that Flavor Flav -LRB- born William Drayton -RRB- does have some musical talent , he just chooses not to use it most of the time .
In our chat with Harold Brown of the group War , we learned that Flavor came from a musical family and can play piano , drums and guitar .
With Public Enemy , he served as comic relief , and Chuck D. always made it clear that he was a character designed to take the edge off their socially and politically charged songs .
Unlike character singers like Alice Cooper , however , Flav stays in character and even amplifies it at opportune times , which leads to more reality TV gigs .
A common misconception about this song is that it 's critical of the police response time in urban black neighborhoods .
Actually , it 's about the paramedics response time - important distinction .
Related trivia : 9-1-1 is the emergency number in the US , but how many Americans can name the equivalent number in other countries ?
In case you have to face such a question in a future Jeopardy appearance , here 's a few major ones : Australia -LRB- 000 -RRB- , European Union -LRB- 112 -RRB- , United Kingdom -LRB- 999 -RRB- , New Zealand -LRB- 111 -RRB- , India -LRB- 108 -RRB- , Israel -LRB- 100 -RRB- .
-LRB- 999 -RRB- is also used in many other parts of the world , such as Hong Kong , Ireland , and Poland .
If you are n't in one of the countries on this list , just try to stay out of trouble .
The song was written by Flavor Flav , who ought to be acquainted with 911 emergency services if the news stories are to be believed .
He has a rap sheet going back to 11th grade , and has stood charged -LRB- at various times -RRB- with assault , domestic violence , attempted murder , and lots of traffic tickets .
Unlike most Public Enemy songs where Chuck D. handles most of the vocals , Flav takes the lead here , paving the way for his subsequent reality show notoriety .
Flavor Flav sang this intentionally out of key .
Chuck D. explained : `` When you put him in key , it gets syrupy - too close to music .
See , when you add noise on top of noise , you gon na tune everybody out .
But with Flavor , he becomes the noise , because he is annoying ! ''
This song pops up in the oddest places .
Duran Duran covered it on their album Thank You .
Comedy Central used the song for commercials for their Reno 911 !
TV series .
It also appeared in an episode of American Dad .
