In this song Shelton refers to various fashion items including the high-end shoe brand Manolo Blahnik , but gets the name wrong .
The Country singer admitted to The Boot , `` I thought it was called ` Minono Blandick ' ... How do you say it ?
Its not Milano Blanick ?
It 's too late now , it 's on the record that way .
We really do n't give a crap , just to be honest with you .
I 'm probably not gon na be endorsed any time soon by Manolo Blahnik purses or shoes , so we did n't really care that we screwed up the name of the company . ''
In a comic moment at the beginning of the song , a Grand Ole Opry announcer sound-alike introduces Blake ... as Drake Skelton .
`` I have always been fascinated by when a new artist is on the Grand Ole Opry and one of the old legends comes out -LSB- to introduce him or her -RSB- , '' Blake explained to The Boot .
`` There 's no way they can keep up with all the new artists these days that are coming in and out of the Opry , and at least once a month you 'll hear a great story about Jim Ed Brown or someone screwing up somebody 's name .
Porter Wagoner was famous for screwing up tons of people 's names , because he introduced tons of people who probably never came back again .
So I wanted to put myself in that position ... We never said the Opry and we never said Porter Wagoner , but the voice is Gordon Mote -- who used to play piano for Porter Wagoner -- doing his best Porter Wagoner impression .
It sounds dead on !
So I said , ` Just get in and act like you 're introducing me as Porter Wagoner on the Grand Ole Opry and completely screw up my name , and make little comments at the end like you did n't really even like my song anyway . '
`` Shelton chose to tack this funny bit onto the beginning of the song , because `` there 's nothing serious about this song anyway ! ''
He added : `` One thing we decided when we were making Six Paks was , if the whole idea is to get people back into the stores and buying albums again , then there needs to be something extra on there .
And if there 's one thing people are figuring out about me , it 's my sense of humor ... If I ever go back to making a full length album , I 'm gon na have a ton of that crap in there .
I like recording -LSB- comedy -RSB- more than I like recording songs !
-LSB- laughs -RSB- ''
