This tale of a spoiled little girl was inspired by a story Kelvin Swaby saw on the E !
entertainment network .
The Heavy frontman told us : `` There was some kind of little docudrama about some girl that was just obsessed with going shopping .
And her mom was footing the bill .
And I was watching it almost with my mouth agape , just like , ` Huh ?
Really ?
No , you 're absolutely -- ' and it was just like seriously , wait -- do you want that ?
And at the time I was working on that beat anyway , that -LRB- singing -RRB- bum bum bum , and so I 'm watching it , and then literally I 'm there with my son , and so I 'm just like , -LRB- singing -RRB- ` She wants everything , she wants the Gucci and the Louis -- ' because it 's like Gucci , Louis Vuitton , Juicy Couture , Canary bling , the canary diamonds .
Just super expensive .
And this guy was just made to foot the bill , and he was like , ` Oh , I love her , I love her , ' and I 'm just like , ` No !
I do n't want that kind of love .
I do n't know how you could love that kind of love . '
But seriously , that is n't love .
-LRB- laughing -RRB- I think by now we 've got into this magazine age - the celebrity magazine age - and everybody wants to be like a celebrity .
And so whether they 're gon na throw themselves into a s -- tload of debt , they want to have that lifestyle .
These magazines are selling that lifestyle .
So it was just kind of mocking that a little bit . ''
There are a bunch of videos for this song , but none of them are official .
Swaby explains : `` For ` Colleen ' we did n't make a video for it .
Radar Film Festival in L.A. got in contact with our record company and said , ` We love the song ` Colleen , ' can we use it so that all of these budding video directors can make a video to it ? '
And so they , without us knowing , said yes .
Then when some of the entries started coming in , we started getting all these random videos coming in , it was like , What 's going on here ?
It 's just crazy , because there were n't a lot of great videos , to be quite honest .
And they were n't representative of the song .
So we never commissioned any of those videos , I 'd just like to put that out there.I 've seen a lot of them .
There 's probably about 20 .
And I think the best one that I 've seen is an animated one , it 's like a Big Foot , and he 's trying to get home to his wife .
It 's an animated thing .
It 's like real rough style drawing .
But that was probably the best one .
That 's probably the one that I would say was passable .
And I think that was actually the one that won , as well . ''
-LRB- Check out our full interview with Kelvin Swaby of The Heavy . -RRB-
