Laura Bell Bundy is a stage actress who played Elle Woods in Legally Blonde - The Musical .
Achin ' and Shakin ' is her second album , and it 's split into two parts representing the two sides of her personality .
This song fits squarely on the `` Shakin ' '' side .
In our interview with Laura Bell Bundy , she explained : `` I had written this poem for a guy I was seeing at the time .
And we did n't label our relationship .
We did n't call each other ` boyfriend/girlfriend . '
I was on the phone with my friend one day and I said , ` Yeah , I 'm out visiting my man toy . '
He said , ' I have never heard anybody call their significant other man toy .
That is awesome . '
So I started coming up with a poem , and I came up with ` man toy , lover boy ' all these things that I was saying instead of ` boyfriend . '
` Sweetheart that brings me joy , better half , sweetie pie , yes , I 'm still seeing that same guy , no labels , or can I call you my boyfriend ? '
I had this in my computer for months .
I got together with Luke Laird and Barry Dean and we started looping some beats and stuff , because with the Shakin ' side that 's kind of how we did it , we looped beats , we came up with these melodies first .
And then we wrote the lyrics .
So we started doing this , and they started playing piano , and I realized on the chorus part I could sing ` man toy , loverboy ' over it , and I was like , ` Oh my god , I have this poem .
It 's a great idea for a song . '
And that was it .
It fit perfectly , it fit absolutely perfectly .
And then we started creating the verses on that .
So honestly , it was like the story was blatant in front of me .
It was blatant . ''
So , does the guy Laura wrote this song about know it 's about him ?
Yes he does .
Says Bundy : `` It 's an amicable breakup .
We 're still good friends , we 're fine .
In fact , I sang it on Leno , and he said , ` Great job on Leno .
It 's hard to swallow hearing that song .
It 's hard to hear you sing that song . '
Because he knows that 's about him .
And it was almost like when we started calling each other boyfriend/girlfriend , because I wrote that song .
So yeah , it does n't feel like I 'm singing it to him now .
When you write a sad song about somebody , that feels like you 're singing it about them .
But when you write an up-tempo that 's kind of sassy , it 's like it could be anybody you 're saying .
It 's not like I do n't think about him , but it does n't wreck me .
If we were n't friends it might wreck me .
We 're friends , so there 's some peace now . ''
