This song is about child abuse .
It tells the story of a frightened boy who is forbidden to talk about what he 's going through .
Speaking with SongTalk magazine , Vega explained that she started with the title for this song .
Describing how she wrote it , she said : `` It takes months of kind of fingering it in my mind , while I 'm walking around or doing something else , it 's just like a problem that my mind goes back to .
It wiggles .
It 's like you 're trying to get the right angle , and once the angle comes , I can write the song in two hours .
Like ` Luka ' took two hours .
It took months of thinking about it and lining up the shot , in a sense .
Like if you 're playing pool and you want to clear the table , you line it all up , and then you just hit it and everything clears .
It 's very satisfying , but it takes months of preparation.I was n't sure what the character would say .
I knew what the character 's problem was , but I did n't know how to get the listener involved .
I wanted it to be from the point of view of a person who is abused .
Now the problem that that person has is that they ca n't say it .
So how do you get the problem out if you ca n't say it ?
How do you involve the listener ?
Well , you introduce yourself : ` My name is Luka . '
And ' I live on the second floor , I live upstairs from you , ' and so therefore you 're engaging the listener . '
I think you 've seen me before , ' so you start to listen .
You 're drawing the listener into this world with very simple , basic information .
And it then proceeds to state the problem without ever saying what the problem is .
That was my problem as a songwriter : How do I give this information without ever giving it?It 's easy to point a finger .
It 's easy to say , ` Child abuse must stop ' and everybody knows this . ''
There is a great deal of lyrical dissonance in this song , as the stark story of child abuse contrasts with the catchy melody .
Vega explained to SongTalk : `` Because I was aiming at such a complex subject , I was aiming for the simplest line to get there .
Simple melodies , happy chords .
I felt I had to make it accessible because it was such a dark subject .
So I went all out .
But I also tried to write in the language of a child .
So that 's probably why it worked , because it is so accessible . ''
On a 1987 Swedish television special , Vega said : `` A few years ago , I used to see this group of children playing in from of my building , and there was one of them , whose name was Luka , who seemed a little bit distinctive from the other children .
I always remembered his name , and I always remembered his face , and I did n't know much about him , but he just seemed set apart from these other children that I would see playing .
And his character is what I based the song Luka on .
In the song , the boy Luka is an abused child - In real life I do n't think he was .
I think he was just different . ''
Vega wrote this song about three years before it was released on her second album .
It was written before her debut album , but Vega said it `` needed some time for it to settle into the bag of songs . ''
The video was directed by Michael Patterson and his wife Candace Reckinger , and it used an experimental animation technique that they popularized in the video for a-ha 's `` Take On Me . ''
