Neil Young told the October 4 , 2007 Guardian newspaper : `` I think its time has come .
People may have been distracted 20 years ago with the fact that I was doing a song with horns .
Some people were upset with me .
So I did n't want to have to fight that battle and release the song .
It was such a powerful record that it overtook everything that I put it with . ''
`` Ordinary People '' is a tribute , of over 18 minutes in length , to the common man who are struggling with everyday issues such as drugs , crime and paying their taxes .
Though never released , it became the centerpiece of many of Young 's shows in the late '80s and the song has gone down in rock folklore .
In an interview with Gibson , Young said that `` Some early listeners have said that this album is positive and spiritual .
I like to think it focuses on the human condition .
Like many of my recordings , this one draws on earlier material here and there .
I used to do that a lot back in the day .
Some songs , like ` Ordinary People , ' need to wait for the right time .
I think now is the right time for that song and it lives well with the new songs I have written in the past few months . ''
The original Chrome Dreams was an unreleased collection of songs mostly recorded between September '75 - November 1976 at Indigo Studios in Malibu Canyon , California .
In the same Guardian newspaper article , Young said that Chrome Dreams II takes its inspiration from the original Chrome Dreams album .
`` Chrome Dreams represents a kind of record that I like to make where there 's a lot of different kinds of music , '' he said .
`` I used to make those records all the time in the '70s .
Every record that I made had acoustic and electric songs on it .
And then things changed in the '80s and in the '90s .
The records became focused more on one kind of music .
And the radio stations have everything separated , so I made records like that for a while .
Chrome Dreams II draws on the past . ''
Neil Young recorded his album at a garage studio in Redwood City , California , which features vintage gas pumps on the forecourt .
