The lead single from ARTPOP was penned by Gaga with the Chicago producer DJ White Shadow , who also worked with the singer on Born This Way .
The song was originally scheduled to be released on August 19 , 2013 but the singer 's label was forced drop it a week earlier following a series of online leaks .
Gaga debuted the tune live at the MTV Video Music Awards on August 25 , 2013 .
Speaking with Ryan Seacrest on his radio show , Gaga spoke about how her failing hip influenced this song .
`` When I was finishing the -LSB- Born This Way -RSB- tour , I was physically breaking , '' she said .
`` I was in a lot of pain , but did n't know where really .
I have a strong threshold for pain , so I kept slapping myself saying , ` Get it together . '
The only thing that kept me going was the applause .
And I was able to drown out the pain and finish the show . ''
Gaga was diagnosed with a labral tear of her right hip , and was forced to take a break for surgery .
The singer told Seacrest how she put all of her energy in to making her third album while she was recovering from her injury .
`` ARTPOP is a celebration and a poetic musical journey through my friends and I hanging out and enjoying being Pop stars , '' she explained .
`` And that 's what really inspired the record is that time off . ''
DJ White Shadow explained to MTV News how the song took on a whole new meaning after Gaga canceled her remaining dates on her Born This Way tour to undergo hip surgery .
`` Over a period of time it develops into a cohesive idea , '' he explained .
`` We write the songs in parts .
So basically what I 'm saying is that all of them have some kind of meaning .
And when she wrote that -LSB- song -RSB- ... she was hurting that whole entire time .
And after she figured out what it was that was hurting and figured how severe that was and had that time off , we had time to go back and like really sit around and craft and take it to the next level . ''
He added , `` When she did that to her hip we did n't know what the single was going to be .
We had no idea . ''
Gaga sparked controversy with a Twitter competition which urged her followers to buy multiple copies of the song , make constants radio requests , and post about the track repeatedly on Twitter .
The Mother Monster offered her fans the chance to fly to her appearance at the iTunes Festival in London to meet her , but the suggestion that followers who buy multiple copies of the single and prove it would be entered into the contest caused a bit of a hullabaloo .
With multiple purchases counting toward the track 's chart placing , many complained that Gaga was artificially inflating the success of the tune .
The song 's music video was directed by Dutch fashion photographers and past Gaga collaborators Inez & Vinoodh and was inspired by Gaga 's passion for shapeshifting .
We see the singer wearing an assortment of outfits including a clam shell bikini and a dress made of grass-green mosaic tiles .
There are 12 costume changes in total and Gaga told Good Morning America : `` When we were on set we did a lot of different looks and they 're each very representative of different parts of me , as well as my obsession with transforming . ''
Gaga sings about her affinity for American artist Jeff Koons in this song : `` One second I 'm a Koons fan Then suddenly the Koons is me . ''
Jeff Koons is known for his reproductions of banal objects , one of which , Tulips , was sold for $ 33,682,500 at Christie 's New York on November 14 , 2012 .
The artist created the ARTPOP album cover , which features his nude sculpture of Gaga .
When she hosted Saturday Night Live on November 16 , 2013 , Gaga used this song in her monologue , turning the concept of cheap applause into a comedy bit .
`` Give it up for New York , '' she said , before explaining that there were two types of applause : the kind you earn and the kind you get by pandering to the audience .
`` I am a fan of both , and I wrote a song about , '' she said , launching into a brief performance of the song .
Gaga sings on the song of living for her fans ' applause - the way they cheer and scream for her .
`` In my heart of hearts as I was writing , I knew that if I asked -LSB- the fans -RSB- to cheer for me before I sang or if I alluded to the fact that they would cheer for me before I sang , '' said Gaga to Women 's Wear Daily .
`` They do that all the time for me ; before I even open my mouth , the fans start cheering for me .
And so this exclamation , ` Give me that thing that I love .
Give it to me .
I 'm ready , start the music . '
I 'm from New York .
I 've worked since I was a five-year-old to be a performer .
All my life .
I deserve to be here .
I 'm ready . ''
Gaga told Seacrest that the track `` almost did n't make the album '' until she met with Interscope Records chief Jimmy Iovine and played him 40 songs during a meeting .
She said : `` We played ` Applause ' last and Jimmy said to me , ` Well every single record you 've played me has been better than the one you played before it , so the last one should be the first single . ' ''
Some Twitter users have joked that they thought the song was titled ` Applesauce ' .
`` So I guess @LadyGaga lives for the applause , '' tweeted one .
`` I , on the other hand , live for the applesauce . ''
Gaga came under fire in 2011 when similarities were noted between the melody of her `` Born This Way '' and Madonna 's 1989 hit single , `` Express Yourself . ''
After releasing this song , fans and reviewers took to the net concerning resemblances between this song and another Madonna track , her 2012 cut , `` Girl Gone Wild . ''
A ` mash-up ' of the two songs quickly spread across the web .
Inez van Lamsweerde , who is one half of Inez & Vinoodh told MTV News that the big idea of the video was to have Gaga symbolize the moment of her hip breaking .
She explained : `` That 's why she 's sort of holding up her right leg as a trophy and this idea that no matter what it takes , she 'll get back onstage . ''
The Clamshell Bikini was inspired by Botticelli 's famous painting of The Birth of Venus , which depicts the goddess Venus , having emerged from the sea as a fully grown woman , arriving at the seashore .
Inez added that they were also inspired by `` having this idea that she goes through this struggle to go back onstage , which is in that pink laser tower .
And she 's sort of dragging that leg as a trophy and making it back on stage as a fully-realized , complete new person and that 's why the Botticelli came to mind . ''
The scene where Gaga 's head appears on a black swan was inspired by the singer 's fascination with eggs .
Inez told MTV News : `` She 's always had the egg reference in her work and since this video is kind of about a rebirth and at the end there 's the Botticelli Birth of Venus reference , so we said , ` OK , an egg ... a fur egg and what comes out of a fur egg ? '
In our minds , a black swan with her face on it . ''
Gaga told The Guardian that rather than being a song for herself , `` Applause '' is as universal as any love song .
`` It 's so interesting for people to say that the lyrics are all about me the performer , '' she said .
`` I want you to feel that way about yourself , that 's why I wrote the song .
I want you to wake up in the morning and say : ' I live for your applause , look at me today , I 'm having a great day , I 'm going to work and I 'm going to have a fantastic lunch with my friends . '
But it 's not to be taken quite as seriously and as literally as people make it to be , which is why in the verses I 'm sort of making fun of what people think about fame . ''
The song topped the singles charts in several countries including Hungary , Lebanon and Spain .
It also reached # 1 on Billboard 's US Dance/Electronic Songs and US Hot Dance Club Songs listings .
