This ballad was written by Gaga for her father , Joseph .
In the song she hopes he 'll be convinced to seek the medical treatment he needs for his heart condition .
`` I 've known about my father 's condition for about 15 years .
He told me whatever happens , happens , '' she told New York 's Z-100 radio station .
`` I was getting ready to lose my dad and I wrote this song . ''
Unusually for Lady Gaga , this Ron Fair produced track features a guitar .
Lady Gaga struggles with bouts of depression when touring , but out of her sadness came this song .
Jam !
Music asked the singer what was her lowest point of 2009 ?
She replied : `` The lowest point was in Australia in May .
I was overwhelmingly sad , and I did n't know why , because I had all these things to be happy about .
I went to the studio and played for hours , and I wrote what is going to be the greatest record of my career , a beautiful song about my father .
I remember watching the mascara tears flood the ivories and I thought , ` It 's OK to be sad . '
I 've been trained to love my darkness . ''
Joseph finally undertook a heart operation a few months before the release of The Fame Monster.and Gaga twitted to her fans to let them know that all was well with him .
`` My Daddy had open-heart surgery today .
And after long hours , and lots of tears , they healed his broken heart , and mine .
Speechless , '' she wrote .
`` At the hospital .
Giving daddy a foot rub while he falls asleep .
He 's my hero . ''
As with the other songs on The Fame Monster , Gaga is fighting a monster of some sort , in this instance her fear of death - specifically her father 's .
`` My mom called me and I was very depressed .
I was on tour and I could n't leave , so I went into the studio and I wrote this song ` Speechless , ' and it 's about these phone calls , '' she recalled .
`` My dad used to call me after he 'd had a few drinks and I would n't know what to say .
I was speechless and I just feared that I would lose him and I would n't be there . ''
GaGa discussed this song with The Sunday Times December 6 , 2009 : `` It 's very loving in one sense , but in another sense it 's quite ruthless .
I think my favourite lines on the whole album are -- ` And I know that it 's complicatedBut I 'm a loser in love So baby , raise a glass to mend All the broken hearts Of all my wrecked-up friends .
` So I 'm writing about my dad , but not only from my perspective , from the perspective of my mother , and women and men all over the world whose hearts are broken for whatever reason .
For me , the whole album lives in that lyric . ''
