This song is a salute to the actor Dwight Frye , who played maniacal characters in many Universal horror films , including Renfield from the original Dracula -LRB- 1931 -RRB- .
Cooper dropped the `` E '' from the name to avoid a lawsuit .
The shock rock legend wrote this song with guitarist/songwriter Michael Bruce , who was an original member of the Alice Cooper Group .
During his tenure with the band , Bruce wrote or co-wrote many of their biggest hits , including `` No More Mr. Nice Guy , '' `` I 'm Eighteen , '' and `` School 's Out . ''
He also played keyboards and contributed vocals on their records .
This is a track from Love It To Death , the third studio album by Alice Cooper -LRB- the band -RRB- .
Co-produced by Bob Ezrin and Jack Richardson , the album climbed to # 35 on the US Billboard 200 album chart and # 28 on the UK album charts .
It also featured the track `` I 'm Eighteen , '' which brought the band its first big mainstream hit and became one of Cooper 's most recognized songs .
The band established their accessible Heavy Metal sound on this collection .
The album also marked the beginning of a productive , long-term working relationship between Cooper and Ezrin .
Following Love It To Death , Cooper recruited Ezrin to produce a number of albums for both the Alice Cooper Group and his solo releases .
Among the notable albums he produced for Cooper include School 's Out , Billion Dollar Babies , Welcome to My Nightmare and Lace and Whisky .
Throughout the '70s , Ezrin was one of the most successful and in-demand music producers on the Rock scene .
In addition to Cooper , other notable acts he has worked with include KISS , Lou Reed , Peter Gabriel , Pink Floyd , Dr. John and Rod Stewart .
In concert , Cooper would perform this song in a straitjacket from which he would escape and strangle a nurse .
Later live performances of this song included a mock beheading of Cooper onstage with a fake guillotine .
-LRB- thanks , Alan - Zanesville , OH , for above 2 -RRB- The child 's voice at the song 's intro was actually a woman in her early 20s , who was a friend of the band .
-LRB- thanks , Mark - Windsor , Canada -RRB- In addition to this song , Michael Bruce also contributed to the writing of five other tracks on the album , two of which he penned entirely on his own : `` Caught in a Dream '' and `` Long Way to Go . ''
