John Lennon wrote this song , which may have been influenced by the ambivalence he felt during his first marriage .
Lennon called this song `` my first attempt at a ballad ... it 's semi autobiographical , but not consciously . ''
The structure of the song is rather intriguing .
It opens with an intro that contains no musical elements found in the rest of the song , and the body of this song has no real verse/chorus structure , just 2 verses that each turn halfway through on an unexpected chord.The song is very expressive , with large intervals between the notes in a quasi-modal way .
Typical of Lennon are the emphasis on three recurrent long notes -LRB- '' ... give my heart ... '' -RRB- .
It has similarities with John Dunstable 's motet `` Quam pulchra es '' from the fifteenth century .
The introduction is also unusual , with four modulations - even tighter than most music from late romantic music .
-LRB- thanks to Johan Cavalli , who is a music historian in Stockholm -RRB- There were a few demos of this song recorded in January 1964 before The Beatles came to America .
The proper recording came on Thursday , February 27 , 1964 .
The take you hear on the album is Take 15 .
-LRB- thanks , Ben - Cheverly , MD -RRB- This was used as the B-side of `` And I Love Her . ''
Lennon and McCartney sang together into the same microphone when recording this song .
John sang the lead on the intro , then Paul sang in a higher lead while John sang harmony .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- At the end of the second time that they sing , `` Would be sad if our new love was in vain , '' McCartney 's voice cracks on `` vain , '' but on newer releases of the song this mistake is covered over .
-LRB- thanks , Adrian - Wilmington , DE -RRB- The Beatles performed this in the movie A Hard Day 's Night .
It was used in a scene where they perform to a group of school kids in a theater .
The kids were all borrowed from nearby schools , and had no idea they would see The Beatles .
On of the kids was 13-year-old Phil Collins , who did n't make the final cut , but was given outtakes with him in it years later when he contributed commentary for the DVD release of the movie .
During their 1964 tour , Lennon had some fun with McCartney , adding the word `` over '' when Paul introduced the song .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB-
