On this Eastern-flavoured song , Eminem tackles an old relationship with Mariah Carey .
-LRB- Mariah and Eminem dated for about 6 months back in 2001 , though Mariah denies the entire affair -RRB- .
He raps that he wants to rekindle the romance and takes shots at her actor husband , Nick Cannon .
Carey 's husband took major offense at the insults directed at him and his wife and he took to his blog to comment on it : `` A mediocre -LRB- at best -RRB- Eminem record that sounds like it was written in 2001 .
At first , I thought it was old material that had been dug up from when dude ` fantasized ' about having a pretend fling with Mariah .
But all of a sudden I hear my name in the verse !
My first reaction was like , ` This is his new sh -- ?
Wow , that 's too bad . '
`` Cannon continued , angrily claiming that Eminem was racist .
He wrote : `` She has had enough difficulty in her life dealing with racial and ethnicity issues .
Believe it or not , Mariah is the same racial mixture as our beloved president , Barack Obama .
-LRB- Black Father + White Mother = BLACK -RRB- .
Maybe I 'm going too far , but I thought we got past the days where white men could spew vulgar obscenities at our beautiful queens and get away with it .
What 's next ?
Are we going to let this trash say something horrible about our lovely first lady , Mrs. Michelle Obama ?
Or would Marshall have talked sideways out of his neck like this about Oprah Winfrey ?
This act of racist bigotry can not go unnoticed .
Calling my wife a ` c -- ' and a ` whore ' is way worse than anything Don Imus could have ever said .
So trust , repercussions will be served .
Anybody got Al Sharpton 's number ?! LOL Let 's not forget about Eminem 's amateur mixtape rants of calling African Americans ` ni -- ' and how he hates ` black bi -- es . ' ''
During an interview with Tim Westwood on BBC Radio 1 , Eminem commented that `` I kinda spazzed out on that record , but I guess I spazzed out on every record . ''
He added : `` There 's a line on there that was a little harsh .
It 's a harsh line .
But it 's like this , the way I look at it : I had no idea he was gon na take it like he took it .
I had no idea Nick Cannon was gon na start wildin ' out on me .
No pun intended .
`` Eminem admitted that though he had n't read Cannon 's blog post he 'd got the general drift of the message .
He said : `` I heard about some of the things he was saying .
I did n't read his blog or anything .
But it is what it is .
He 's supposed to defend his wife , and I expected him to do that .
But at the end of the day , it 's a line I said ; it 's a song .
What I actually meant to say is , I wish them the best .
That 's what I meant to say .
That 's the whole message of the record . ''
