The lyrics were written by Pete Brown , a beat poet who was friends with Ginger Baker and Jack Bruce .
He also wrote lyrics for `` I Feel Free '' and `` White Room . ''
Eric Clapton and Jack Bruce wrote the music .
Pete Brown wrote the opening line after being up all night working with Bruce and watching the sun come up .
That 's were he got , `` It 's getting near dawn , when lights close their tired eyes . ''
According to Rolling Stone magazine 's Top 500 songs issue , Jack Bruce knew the song would do well : `` Both Booker T. Jones and Otis Redding heard it at Atlantic Studios and told me it was going to be a smash , '' he recalled .
One man who was not impressed was Ahmet Ertegun , who was head of the group 's label .
When Bruce revealed the song at the sessions , Ertegun declared it `` psychedelic hogwash . ''
Ertegun constantly tried to promote Eric Clapton as the band 's leader , and also did n't believe the bassist should be a lead singer .
He only relented and agreed to champion this song after Booker T. Jones came by and expressed his approval .
Jimi Hendrix covered this at some of his concerts .
He did not know that he inspired the bass line .
He did an impromptu performance in the middle of his appearance on the Lulu show -LRB- where he was supposed to play `` Hey Joe '' -RRB- on BBC TV in England in 1968 .
This version appears on the Experience Hendrix 2CD/3LP `` The BBC Sessions '' towards the end of Disc 2/Side 6 on the LP .
An instrumental version appears on the 2010 Valleys of Neptune album , which was recorded by Hendrix at London 's Olympic Studios on February 16 , 1969 .
Hendrix engineer and producer Eddie Kramer recalled to Toronto 's The Globe and Mail : `` Jimi loved Cream , he loved Eric Clapton .
It was a fabulous song , he loved to play it , and he would just rip into it whenever the mood hit him . ''
-LRB- thanks , Jippers - Gosford , Australia -RRB- Clapton 's guitar solo is based on the '50s song `` Blue Moon . ''
Cream played this at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on January 12 , 1993 when they reunited for their induction .
To that point , the only other time the band got back together was at Eric Clapton 's wedding in 1979 .
Jack Bruce 's bass line carries the song .
He got the idea for it after going to a Jimi Hendrix concert .
When Kees van Wee interviewed Bruce in 2003 for the Dutch magazine Heaven , Kees asked him which of his many songs epitomizes Jack Bruce the most .
At first he was in doubt whether he should answer `` Pieces Of Mind '' or `` Keep On Wondering , '' but then he changed his mind and opted for `` Sunshine Of Your Love . ''
Because , Said Bruce , `` It 's based on a bass riff .
And when you enter a music shop this is the song that kids always play to try out a guitar . ''
-LRB- thanks to Kees for this info -RRB- Tom Dowd , who worked with most of the artists for Atlantic Records at the time , engineered the Disreali Gears album .
Dowd was renowned for his technical genius , but also for his ability to relate to musicians and put them at ease .
When Cream recorded this song , it was n't working .
In the documentary Tom Dowd And The Language Of Music , he explained : `` There just was n't this common ground that they had on so many of the other songs .
I said , ` Have you ever seen an American Western where the Indian beat - the downbeat - is the beat ?
Why do n't you play that one .
Ginger went inside and they started to run the song again .
When they started playing that way , all of the parts came together and they were elated . ''
This is one of Eric Clapton 's favorites from this days with Cream ; he played it at most of his solo shows throughout his career .
When Cream played some reunion concerts in 2005 , they played the song as their encore .
This was Cream 's biggest hit .
It was their first to do better in the US than in England , as they started to catch on in America .
In the US , this first charted in February , 1968 at # 36 .
In August , after the album came out , it re-entered the chart and went to # 5 .
Excepting `` Strange Brew , '' the Disraeli Gears album was recorded in just three days , as the band had to return to England because their work visas were expiring .
Engineer Tom Dowd recalls the sessions coming to an abrupt end when a limo driver showed up to take the musicians to the airport .
Dowd was tasked with mixing the album in their absence .
Jack Bruce released a new version on his 2001 album Shadows In The Air .
Clapton played on it along with Latin percussionists from New York City , which gave it a Salsa sound .
