Four different versions of this song made the Hot 100 in 1977 .
In June , a version by the Jazz musician Maynard Ferguson peaked at # 28 a week before Conti 's hit the top spot .
The first version to chart was by Rhythm Heritage , a studio act that specialized in covers of theme songs - they had a # 1 with `` Theme From S.W.A.T. '' in 1976 .
They took it to # 94 in March that year .
The other version to chart was by Current , which was also a studio act led by producer Joe Saraceno .
This version also made # 94 , this time in May .
Parts of the scene where Rocky runs up the museum steps in training are played backwards .
Originally the shot zoomed out but it was reversed to zooming in in order to better match the musical score and for dramatic effect .
Carol Conners -LRB- real name Annette Kleinbard -RRB- was the lead singer for The Teddy Bears , who had a major hit with `` To Know Him Is To Love Him . ''
That song was written by Phil Spector specifically to showcase Connors ' singing voice .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , for all above -RRB- The composer Bill Conti wrote an instrumental for the training montage in the first Rocky movie .
He played it to his collaborators Carol Conners and Ayn Robbins at Carol 's house .
A few days later , Carol was taking a shower when the words `` Gon na fly now ... '' came into her head .
She called Bill from the shower and said she knew what the words should be .
The completed song with full lyrics was submitted for the film , but the version heard in the final cut contains only 30 words .
On the Billboard Hot 100 for the week ending May 21 , 1977 , this song leapt from # 21 to # 7 .
Then , it moved up one position each week for the next six until it finally displaced Marvin Gaye 's `` Got To Give It Up '' from the top spot on the July 2nd 1977 .
This is possibly the only song to climb on consecutive weeks 7-6-5-4-3-2-1 .
This song was a perfect fit for the movie and for the Rocky character - an underdog who fought beyond his abilities through rugged determination .
It was used as the primary theme in the first two Rocky movies , but for Rocky III , Sylvester Stallone wanted something different that would appeal to a younger audience .
He found it in `` Eye Of The Tiger . ''
