This song is about a male couple from the streets of East Los Angeles .
Some may be surprised that a group with no gay members would address same sex unions , but Ozomatli have a longstanding mission of peace and tolerance .
Keyboardist Ulises Bella told Billboard Magazine : `` That song is our declaration of how we feel about the issue .
It 's scandalous that we 're still at a point in society where we even question whether they deserve the same rights . ''
In our interview with Ozomatli bass player Wil-Dog Abers , we asked him what kind of reaction they get to this song .
He replied : `` It 's a mix .
It depends on the community and what 's going on .
When we play it at our shows , I notice rainbow flags will come out .
We just did Bonnaroo and saw a gay couple in the back stand arm-in-arm , sing the song , and bring out the pride flag .
And then , in Spanish media , they 're always asking about it and wanting to know who 's gay in the band .
And then there 's the L.A. Latino community that 's kind of mixed on it , you know , it depends on who it is .
You 'll see some guys in a band , more macho guys like , -LRB- makes growling noise -RRB- , so a lot of people even laugh when we play it .
Kind of like it 's a joke or something .
So people have different responses to that song .
But it 's really for the people , it 's for gay people , really .
And it 's also for straight people , showing solidarity with the gay movement and being straight .
`` Wil-Dog adds that a lack of acceptance of homosexuality is not isolated to the Latin community .
`` I think all communities have people that are okay with it , and people that are not okay with it , '' he said .
`` And that goes for every culture .
I do n't think there 's a culture out there that 's across-the-board okay with it .
It 's funny , because if this had been about race , I think people would be up in arms about it .
Because if you really look at the movement of the gay/lesbian transsexual/bisexual rights movement , it kind of started with the Civil Rights movement here in this country .
And it 's way , way , way behind . ''
