Lennon wrote this in 1983 at a French chateau called the Manor de Valotte , which is how the song got its title -LRB- the word `` Valotte '' does not appear in the lyrics -RRB- .
In our interview with Julian , he told the story : `` The place where that was written , which was actually a beautiful little run-down chateau in the middle of France , which is where the label at the time decided was a good place to send their artists to work out their writing skills .
I know that Thomas Dolby had been down there and a few other high-end acts at that point in time .
It was just a really tranquil , beautiful spot in the middle of nowhere , where one could get a little lonely , I guess .
The song initially came from that idea of just being in this beautiful landscape and dreaming of the idea that if you found that love of your life , this is something that you 'd aspire to .
It 's as simple as that , really . ''
This was Julian 's first single in the US and his second in the UK .
His next American single , `` Too Late for Goodbyes , '' fared even better , going to # 5 .
The album was mixed at The Hit Factory recording studio in New York City on the same console John Lennon used to record the album Double Fantasy .
Most Americans got their first look at Julian Lennon on MTV , which gave his clips consistent airplay .
In the UK , he often appeared in the gossip press , but his interviews to promote the Valotte album gave the first real insights into his personality and his feelings toward his dad .
In these early interviews , he stressed that he was forming his own identity , and in no way trying to emulate his father 's music .
He also spent a lot of time disproving the notion that he was a coddled rich kid ; he went to public schools and did not receive money from John Lennon 's estate until he was older .
As for the question of how he felt toward his dad , Julian explained that he was proud of his dad 's work , but it was very difficult growing up with an absent father .
In his first Melody Maker interview , he said , `` I always had something against him , but I never knew what it was ... apart from him leaving home and all that .
It was because I went to visit him but he never came to visit me .
That 's the only thing that got me . ''
The album was dedicated to `` My mother Cynthia and to my Father . ''
Julian is John Lennon 's first son .
His mother is Cynthia Lennon , who John was married to before Yoko -LRB- they had a son named Sean -RRB- .
Julian sounds a lot like his dad , and a lot of people were surprised to learn it was not a John Lennon song when they first heard it .
Julian recorded this at Muscle Shoals Sound Studios , which at the time was located along the Tennessee River in Sheffield , Alabama .
According to Jimmy Johnson , who was one of the studio owners , Lennon 's lyric `` Sitting on a pebble by the river playing guitar '' was inspired by his time there .
Muscle Shoals is a tranquil place where artists could record in relative seclusion with some of the best musicians in the world available to back them up .
Rod Stewart , Aretha Franklin , The Rolling Stones , Wilson Pickett and Paul Simon all recorded in the Muscle Shoals area .
On `` Valotte , '' Lennon was backed by bass player David Hood , and keyboard player Barry Beckett , and drummer Roger Hawkins , who were the other owners of the studio .
The music video had a high-profile director : Sam Peckinpah .
In 1984 , most filmmakers shunned music videos , but Peckinpah , whose movies include The Getaway and The Wild Bunch , directed Lennon 's first two videos .
Justin Clayton and Carlton Morales , who played guitar on the album , co-wrote this song with Lennon .
