The spoken word lyrics were performed by the British actor Phil Daniels , who was also in the video .
Damon Albarn originally tried doing the verses but could n't get into character , so guitarist Graham Coxon suggested Phil Daniels as the band were big fans of his film , Quadrophenia .
Coxon recalled to The Guardian July 16 , 2012 .
`` At the line ` There was a piece of my heart , ' Phil said , `` Should I drop the ` h ' ?
If I pronounce it , it 'll sound more adorable . ''
We did n't want to use a forced mockney accent , so he pronounced the ` h. ' '' Blur Guitarist Graham Coxon played the saxophone on this track .
He was a saxophonist when he first met Albarn , but this was the only time he played sax for Blur .
He recalled to The Guardian : `` I play a bit of the German national anthem on saxophone in the ` vorsprung durch technik ' line .
It 's a very comedic song , a knees-up .
Oasis were accused of being Chas 'n' Dave , but we were n't far away ourselves . ''
Originally , Albarn was to sing the whole song and Daniels was going to recite a poem over a song called `` The Debt Collector . ''
However , it ended up becoming an instrumental as Albarn could n't come up with a poem he liked , so Daniels was asked to narrate the verses of this instead .
Parklife was Blur 's breakout album in England .
They never hit it big in the US .
In the August , 2005 issue of Q magazine , Damon Albarn explained : `` London Fields -LRB- a novel by English writer Martin Amis -RRB- inspired Parklife .
That book changed my outlook on life . ''
Bassist Alex James said , `` The first time Damon played Parklife to me I was certain that it would be big .
It was one of the most complete things I 'd ever heard .
`` Food Records -LRB- their record label -RRB- co-owner Dave Balfe was not so enthusiastic : `` When I first heard the demo without Phil Daniels , I thought that the chorus was brilliant but it was such a rubbish verse .
I thought it was fairly tedious and the talking verses were not hit single material as far as I was concerned . ''
What sounds like breaking glass was drummer Dave Rowntree smashing a plate .
The song and video won numerous awards in England .
It went nowhere in the US .
Coxon told The Guardian that the song was `` about the park class : dustbin men , pigeons , joggers - things we saw every day on the way to the studio -LSB- Maison Rouge in Fulham -RSB- .
It epitomises what Blur were about - having fun and doing exactly what you want to do . ''
