This song pays tribute to Italian electronic music innovator Giorgio Moroder .
It starts with a monologue by the synth legend in which he narrates his life story , beginning with growing up in a German small town wanting to be a musician , driving to the disco , sleeping in a car and how he decided on using a synthesiser because `` I knew that could be the sound of the future . ''
Moroder recalled his contribution to Redbull Music Academy : `` It was great .
I did n't really work in the sense of being in the studio .
They just asked me to talk about my life .
So we sat down for three hours in the studio in Paris .
They gave me the concept of the album , but not really anything about the song .
I just heard it for the first time a few days ago , and I 'm surprised at how well they integrate my voice with their music .
They were very professional , very detail-oriented guys . ''
Speaking to Vice as part of their Creators Project video series , Moroder said that Random Access Memories is a `` step forward '' for dance music .
`` Daft Punk wanted to do something and do it in a way that 's not done by just pushing a note or a chord , '' he said .
`` You definitely hear that it 's nice and full ; the drums and the bass have that warm , that full sound .
This is like a step forward . ''
Daft Punk explained the story of the song to French publication Le Nouvel Observateur : `` We met several years ago and has always been for us a kind of mythical figure , a little mysterious .
His personal journey following the music .
The idea came to us a little bit of a documentary based on an interview we conducted .
The voice of Giorgio Moroder was recorded with multiple microphones several different times ... So we finally recorded about three hours of interviews in which he recounts his life as a musician .
`` This piece is a metaphor for musical freedom , '' they continued .
`` We have always tried to break down the barriers between genres , between good and bad taste , the stuff connected and unconnected .
Giorgio is a bit of a model of its kind .
He was born in a small provincial town , began studying music in hotel lounges , the opening act for Johnny Hallyday , starts doing stuff progressive rock .
To hear him say , in 72 years , ` ah , I made electronic music forty years ago , ' it 's fascinating . ''
Daft Punk 's Thomas Bangalter told NME that the song 's lyrics also act as a metaphor .
`` We like to do open-ended lyrics , meanings and roles , '' he explained .
`` As much as it 's a homage to Gorgio , it 's also about freedom , music creation , life and how things are evolving . ''
