This Elton John/Bernie Taupin composition is about a massacre in a New York restaurant , which results in summary justice by a hail of police bullets - `` you danced in death like a marionette on the vengeance of the law . ''
When `` Ticking '' was first recorded , the phenomenon of indiscriminate mass shootings was fairly rare in the United States , the worst being the University of Texas Clock Tower Massacre which was perpetrated by undergraduate and former marine Charles Whitman in August 1966 .
Thirty-three years later the outrage of Columbine High set a disturbing trend .
It may be that lyricist Bernie Taupin was inspired by the Whitman shooting , albeit indirectly .
The film Targets -LRB- also known as Before I Die '' -RRB- was based loosely on the Clock Tower Massacre .
It was released barely two years after the tragedy , having been made in almost indecent haste.The unnamed gunman in the song murdered fourteen people in his killing spree before being shot dead by the police .
Whitman killed fourteen people in similar fashion before he too was shot : prior to the massacre he stabbed his mother and his wife to death .
The song is practically all piano and vocal , and all the more impressive for that ; the white Gospel type `` choir '' is a master stroke ; Elton did all the vocals ; Dave Hentschel played ARP synthesiser , the only other instrument on the track .
When he performed `` Ticking '' at the Christenhof Castle , Sweden , on his 2003 tour , Elton introduced the song saying it dealt with violence in America around 1973 ; when Bernie wrote the lyrics we thought things would get better not worse , things have got worse , so it 's more relevant today than ever , and at the end , he said simply `` No guns . ''
The song though makes a statement not only about American society but about society worldwide , and about human nature .
In spite of the problems Mankind faces in the 21st Century , most people , certainly in the West , in Japan , and other advanced nations , have never had it so good .
Yet the problems of survival , and eking out a mere existence have been replaced by increasing psychological and social problems .
Indiscriminate knifings , shootings and even mass murders by outwardly sane and rational people are often triggered by the most trivial of stimulae such as an angry glance or being `` dissed '' in some abstruse manner .
No one knows who is ticking , and will explode suddenly and without notice.A true masterpiece , running to 7 minutes , 28 seconds , this was and remains one of Elton 's most under-rated as well as one of his most powerful songs .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for all above -RRB-
