This ballad is the title track from American Idol season ten winner Scotty McCreery 's debut album .
Scotty explained why the LP was named after this Phil O'Donnell , Casey Beathard and Adam Wheeler penned song : '' ` Clear as Day ' felt like the perfect title for the album .
It 's not too fancy , but it got the point across .
` Scotty McCreery : Clear as Day , ' I like the sound of it and I thought it fit perfectly with what we were trying to accomplish with the album . ''
Clear As Day was produced by Mark Bright who 's worked with previous American Idol winner Carrie Underwood and also helmed Scotty 's debut single , `` I Love You This Big . ''
The Clear As Day album topped the Billboard 200 chart in its debut week selling 197,000 copies .
In doing so Scotty achieved the following : -LRB- 1 -RRB- The first Country artist to debut at # 1 with their first studio album .
-LRB- 2 -RRB- At just 18-years-old Scotty was the youngest male singer to top the Billboard 200 on the first week of his solo debut .
The record was previously held by Omarion , who was 20 when O debuted at # 1 in 2005 .
-LRB- 3 -RRB- The first male Country American Idol winner to reach # 1 on the Billboard 200 .
Scotty explained why this is one of his favorites on Clear As Day .
He said : `` It 's got a great feel to it and a great message too .
It 's relatable for me , with the after-football game kind of thing in the parking lot , and then the after-football-game parties at Cook Out Restaurant .
We sit on the back of the trucks .
Of course , the song takes a twist at the end and gets really serious , talking about how the girl never made it home because of the fog and pouring rain . ''
The first time this song was played to Scotty , it was without the turn at the end .
He recalled to The Boot : `` Right at the beginning , we were hooked on the -LSB- story of -RSB- after the football game , going to the after-football parties .
That 's my life on Friday nights - we have the football games and the cookouts after the game .
We chill in the parking lot . ''
He added that the first time he heard it with the final twist , `` it really ripped my heart out .
It 's just a song I felt the need to get out there . ''
