`` There 's a turning point in a relationship when you either need to move forward or walk away .
And in that sense , the title of this song is very literal , '' says Vertical Horizon lead singer and songwriter Matt Scannell .
`` But the lyric in the chorus I just think is nice .
It 's ` you illuminate me , you 're the color I see , you 're all that shines above , through the dark and disrupt .
All the doubt in your eyes ' -- this is where some of the gray comes in -- ` all the doubt in your eyes , all the stars in mine , is it the distance you need , or is it just me ? '
I really like this lyric . '
I know you 're awake , 'cause you shake when you cry .
As long as I wait , I 've got nothing but time . '
And the chorus goes -- and this is what I like -- ` Take me in , or just take me out .
Put me on if you must , or just put me down .
'Cause I 'm done .
I 'm all worn out .
We 're either alive , or a lie .
I 'm done with the middle ground . '
And I just feel like it says that thing well .
And the second verse , the second pre-chorus is , ` Your touch is the water that gives and takes away , so I wait in the gutter for another rainy day . '
And to me , it just is right , that feeling of I love you , and I 'm putting myself in this s -- tty situation , and I 'm letting all the dregs and the crap run all over me at the hope of just one little bit . ''
When asked if the situation in the song is still going on , Matt replies cryptically , `` Well , do things ever entirely stop going on ? ''
Regarding the women who have served as muses throughout history to songwriters who have written heartbreaking or negative songs about them , Matt says if you 're a very sensitive type , you should probably cut a good swath of space between yourself and anyone who is likely to make your relationship an international hit song .
Likewise , pretty much anyone who has a creative bent .
`` If you live with a filmmaker , he 's gon na make films .
You live with a painter , he 's gon na paint paintings .
And part of it is , there might be a beauty to it , but there 's also a darkness ; there 's a beauty to it , but there 's also some ugly stuff .
And you got ta take your good with your bad , I guess.I 've never been in a relationship with a songwriter .
And I 've never been aware of songs that were written about me .
So I do n't know .
But there 's another part of me that 's just like , I do n't care .
Because I do n't .
This is how I deal with things .
So this is what I do .
Many times in my life I 've had to deal with the fact that this is how I process those difficult emotions .
In some of my relationships in my life , the woman that I was with would sort of say , ` Hey , look , can you not go out on the road ?
Can you not play guitar right now ?
I know you 're saying you have to write a song , but we have to talk about something . '
And there 's a part of me that says , ` Well , yeah , I want to talk to you . '
But there 's another part of me that says , ` Well , this is who I am . '
It 's like another appendage .
And I can not deny that I have another arm .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- And to suggest that I not do this right now would be like saying , ` Well , would you just cut off your arm ? '
Clearly the answer is no .
And I do n't think that 's an exaggeration .
I think that that 's really the way it feels .
And I ca n't stop it , nor do I choose to , or desire to .
In fact , if anything , I want to encourage it and continue it .
Because it means every bit as much to me today as it did when I started writing songs when I was 14 years old .
It 's just who I am . ''
-LRB- Check out the full interview with Matt Scannell . -RRB-
