Lead singer Robert Plant wrote the lyrics to this slow , reflective Blues number about the loneliness he felt being constantly on the road .
He found himself in a New York hotel drinking tea for one when he penned the words .
One reason the band stayed out of England so often to tour and record : to avoid the taxes .
This song forms the last track on the band 's seventh studio album , Presence .
The cover art shows a family of four seated together at a table , apparently at a harbor-side restaurant.This entire album was recorded in just 18 days Musicland Studios in Germany , with Plant in a wheelchair the whole time from injuries sustained in a car accident .
A favorite of many Led Zeppelin diehards , this whole song never got played much at concerts ; however , sometimes the introductory riff would be included as a lead-in to another song .
It finally got its due when Zeppelin played it in full with an orchestra backing in their Japan concert tour in 1996 .
Led Zeppelin would scrap a song if they thought it sounded too similar to something they already recorded , but they made an exception for this one .
According to Jimmy Page , `` Tea For One '' is similar in mood to the 1970 Zeppelin live favorite `` Since I 've Been Loving You . ''
He explained in a 1977 Trouser Press interview : `` The chordal structure is similar , a minor blues .
We just wanted to get a really laid-back blues feeling without blowing out on it at all .
We did two takes in the end , one with a guitar solo and one without .
I ended up sitting there thinking , ` I 've got this guitar solo to do , ' because there have been blues guitar solos since Eric -LRB- Clapton -RRB- on Five Live Yardbirds and everyone 's done a good one .
I was really a bit frightened of it .
I thought , `` What 's to be done ? ''
I did n't want to blast out the solo like a locomotive or something , because it was n't conductive to the vibe of the rest of the track .
I was extremely aware that you had to do something different than just some B.B. King licks . ''
`` Tea For One '' is a slow-blues song in C minor ; another Zeppelin song of the same form is `` Since I 've Been Loving You . ''
