This song shares its name with the title character in Disney 's classic Cinderella , but that 's the only thing it has in common with that fairytale .
Firefall founding member Larry Burnett wrote this song about a girl who wants the fairytale ending , but when she gets pregnant , her boyfriend kicks her out to raise their son on her own .
This was n't , however , based on personal experience .
Burnett was 16 years old when he wrote this song and says , `` I certainly did n't have a wife or a girlfriend who was pregnant and I was working my butt off trying to support us .
None of that was going on .
But it was certainly happening around me in other people 's lives . ''
Larry absorbs things happening in his surroundings , `` like a reporter , '' without even realizing it , and turns them into song lyrics .
He 's not what he calls a `` typical '' songwriter , as he usually does n't know what he 's going to write about until he puts pen to paper .
He says , `` I know guys who sit down , and they have a concept and they want to work a song around the concept , and rhyming words and yadda , yadda .
It 's like a construction project .
And I have attempted that , and in my view failed miserably , or come up with a lesser product , I guess , at the end of something like that .
But what I noticed when I was really young is that , wow , this thing happened , and if there 's a way I can access that environment , then perhaps it will happen more .
And so that 's kind of me . ''
Just after Firefall was formed , the band was looking for a good publicist to get their name out and get their product heard .
They met with Howard Blume , who was the go-to publicist in Los Angeles at the time .
Larry says , `` We were thinking of engaging him and his servitude .
And , '' he says laughing , `` we had some idiots in this band , and I was one of them .
We were nuts .
Anyway , at that meeting , everybody in the band was very concerned about controlling what was said in the press about us .
And we were looking to Howard to be the guy to do that .
And Howard listened to everybody , and he was kind of smiling and chuckling , and he said , ` Look , here 's the deal guys .
Honestly , I do n't care what they say about you , as long as they 're saying something .
My job is to make sure that they spell your name right . '
I thought about that and I thought , Well , of course .
You want to get famous , he does n't care what for , he 's just there to make sure everybody knows who you are .
So I will repeat that because I thought that was a giant pearl of wisdom .
Make sure you spell my name right . ''
-LRB- Thanks to Larry Burnett for talking with us about this song .
Learn more at larryburnett.com - yes , this is spelled correctly . -RRB-
It took Larry about 15 minutes to write this song .
He says it happened so quick he almost never saw it coming .
`` It was already there , and I was just sort of this vessel .
And * poof * I went , whoa , that was interesting .
It was a nice moment . ''
Most of what Larry wrote on the first couple of Firefall albums were written when he was between 16 and 19 .
So he was prepared when the opportunity - in the form of Rick Roberts - presented itself to form a band .
As Burnett tells it : `` I lived in Washington , D.C. .
At the time there was a widely known club called The Cellar Door .
They had Ray Charles and Bonnie Raitt , they had all these people there during the week , and on Sunday nights they had something that today would be called open mike day , I guess .
I used to go down there on Sunday nights and I 'd play these little songs that I 'd written .
And the sound man there , who I am still friends with to this day , Jimmy Geisler , he used to record me .
He thought I was really good , he recorded me .
He had a little tape deck and a light and sound booth .
And then during the week when all of these real people would be coming through , he 'd be handing them these tapes going , ` Hey , I 've got this guy writing songs , I think they 're pretty good .
Give him a listen . '
I think he handed tapes of me on stage Sunday night at The Cellar Door to everybody that came through .
Anyway , Rick Roberts was playing solo , and he came through as the headline act .
And Jimmy gave him one of these tapes .
And Rick went , ` Ooo , I 'd like to meet him . '
So Jimmy hooked me and Rick up .
He called me up and said , ` Come down to the club tonight , this guy wants to meet you finally . '
And so those songs that I was performing then when I was like 18 and 19 on this little stage at The Cellar Door , I had a boatload of them .
And 2 or 3 years later when we finally got Firefall together , that 's what we started out with , I had all this stuff already written .
Believe me , the first time I heard ` Cinderella ' on the radio , I kind of went , ` Whoa , that 's pretty wild . ' ''
