This haunting song finds Brent Smith looking at himself in the mirror and not recognizing who he sees .
Drummer Barry Kerch told Alternative Addiction : `` It 's about looking through the haze and getting things clear and again it 's autobiographical from Brent .
He could n't see things clearly from the haze of booze , pills or whatever but now he 's come through all that . ''
Brent Smith told Artist Direct that when he wrote this autobiographical song , he was talking about a specific day in his life .
`` I woke up , and I did n't recognize myself anymore , '' he said `` I had really let myself go physically and mentally .
I had just hit a very rough place in my life . ''
`` My girlfriend , who is a huge part of my life , '' Smith continued , `` picked me up and said something to me that changed everything .
She was like , `` Listen to me , I love you and I respect you .
You have a lot of people around you that love you too , but you are letting yourself go down '' .
The way she put it is was like this - I am a lot more focused , a lot healthier , and a lot more dangerous when I am clear-headed .
She basically said , ` It 's time for you to get dangerous again .
Get your head out of your ass , pick yourself up , get motivated , get healthy , get your life back , and be the man everybody knows you can be . ' '' ''
` Through the Ghost ' was a reflection of that , '' Smith concluded .
`` It 's like , ` The world will never know you like I do . '
It 's like talking to yourself in the mirror .
Personally , I do n't think the world will know me like I know myself because I live with me day in and day out .
Psychologically , I go through a lot of things .
We 're not all perfect , and it 's not going to be roses all the time .
You have to find a way to balance your life . ''
A heavily orchestrated song without any normal drums , it was decided that rather than getting Barry Kerch to play the kettle drums the band would sample them .
He explained to Alternative Addiction : `` I could have done it because I have played them before but it 's fairly tough to play timpani .
We could have hired someone to play it , but it would have been difficult to keep it in tune and we did n't have the time .
We did the same with the upright chimes ; it would have taken too long for us to do them and it would 've cost too much .
We would never have got the correct overtones and there would have been far too many variables . ''
