In this song , Britney responds to the obsessive media attention she receives by listing the violations for which the American Pop singer has been cited .
In 2007 , Spears had some very public meltdowns and provided lots of content for gossip magazines and entertainment television shows .
She has a very defiant attitude in this song , explaining that she 's still successful despite the constant harassment and the challenges of raising children .
Despite her personal struggles , this song and the Blackout album did very well .
The Swedish popstar Robyn provided backing vocals for this .
The song 's other co-writer Klas Ahlund worked on some of the tracks on Robyn 's 2007 album Robyn , including her UK Top 20 single `` Handle Me . ''
Spears told New York radio station Z100 that her clip for this song left room for improvement - despite winning three MTV Video Music Awards .
Said Britney : `` It 's a cool video , but I think by far I 've done videos that are way better .
So I was really shocked that it got the award . ''
Spears did not write this song , it was co-written and produced by Bloodshy & Advant .
The Swedish production duo were also behind her Grammy-winning track `` Toxic '' and have worked with a number of other international artists including , Kelis , Jennifer Lopez , Madonna Christina Milian , Jordin Sparks and Rachel Stevens .
Britney Spears won the 2008 video of the year award at the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards for this song 's promo .
It also won awards for Best Female Video and for Best Pop Video .
They were the first three awards of Spears ' career and marked a major resurrection after a disastrous 2007 appearance .
The clip was directed by Wayne Isham who had previously worked with Spears on her `` I 'm Not A Girl , Not Yet A Woman '' promo .
Isham told MTV News about the video 's concept , which finds Britney dancing with guys in a nightclub .
He said : `` You can see that she had that kind of confidence .
And , literally , every take became a more and more confident take , so that she could have fun with what was going on .
Not being over-the-top sarcastic , but ... having a laugh at everything that was going on around her , with confidence .
`` Isham added that he encouraged Spears to -LRB- literally -RRB- let her hair down in the video .
`` The very last dance of the piece , she had her hair up , and I go , ` Can you just do one for me with your hair down ? '
She dropped her hair down , '' he recalled .
`` You 'll see we intercut with her hair up and her hair down .
That was the last piece .
She just rocked it from her heart .
She choreographed that last dance at the very end .
She did that on her own and said , ` Let 's go for it . ' ''
