The male half of the Swedish duo Roxette , Per Gessle said of this track : `` The Big Bad Ballad .
This is us trying to recreate that overblown American FM-Rock sound to the point where it almost becomes absurd .
We really wanted to see how far we could take it .
`` His music partner Marie Fredriksson added : `` It sounds a bit dusty today , but it was our second # 1 in the US.Per Gessle : `` Which of course we could n't ever dream about since it was more or less made for Sweden .
When it hit big in the States we suddenly found ourselves lumped together with bands like Heart and Starship , which was n't the intention behind Roxette at all .
But we got out of that one ... I hope.Marie Fredriksson : `` The video was great .
Shot with an American crew at the Borgholm Castle .
The director thought we had built the ruin just for the video .
`` Per Gessle : `` It took some time to convince them that the place actually was for real . ''
-LRB- courtesy : pergessle.net -RRB- In 2005 Belgian group D.H.T. featuring Emdee had a UK and US top 10 hit with a trance cover of this .
It was one of the few times a trance song reached the Top 10 of the Billboard Hot 100 .
D.H.T. originally stood for Danger Hardcore Team , it was later changed to Dance .
House .
Trance .
This was the first Hot 100 # 1 hit not available on vinyl .
It was sold only as a cassette single .
According to Sweden TV4 's vote in October 2006 , Roxette 's Best Video Ever was the one for this song , with it achieving over 30 % of the votes .
The video was recorded at Borgholm castle ruins on the Swedish Baltic Sea island of Oland .
Marie Fredriksson was barefoot in the video , which resulted in her getting lots of shoes sent to her .
In 1998 Roxette received an award from BMI for this song being played over 2 million times on American radio .
Phil Graham of BMI said it was very unusual for a song to get over the 2 million mark in such a short space of time .
In October 2006 , helped by D.H.T 's trance cover , Roxette were awarded again by BMI for the song 's 3 millionth broadcast on American radio .
In a March 2011 interview with the London commuter freesheet Metro , Per Gessle was asked : `` Have you heard your songs in any unlikely places ? ''
to which he replied : ' I was in an airport in New York last year , showing my passport at customs .
The official asked what I did , I said I was a songwriter and he said : ` Oh yeah , have you done anything I might have heard of ? '
I said : ` I 've done this one , ' because `` Listen To Your Heart '' was playing over the speakers at the same time ' .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB-
