This was the second single released from Canadian rapper Drake 's third mixtape , So Far Gone .
Drake recalled to MTV News the first time he heard Noah ' 40 ' Shebib 's beat : `` I remember hearing the record and the drums coming together , and they were just so rocking .
It has this pocket , and there was no melody yet .
I remember -LSB- Noah ' 40 ' Shebib -RSB- kind of making the joint , and then he hit this sound , which is the chords that are in there .
It was so eerie .
Like it was haunting , almost .
I was like , ` Yo , that 's it .
You need to use that . '
He started playing this patch , and just every note that he played fell into place .
I had this beat sitting here that I love so much , and I did n't know what to do with it .
I loved it .
Sometimes , as an artist , you find a musical piece that you love so much , you want to do it justice .
It 's a very overwhelming feeling at times .
I actually turned to Trey Songz , and I was like , ` Yo , I got this joint , and I know how it makes me feel .
I just do n't know how to say it the right way . ' ''
Drake explained to MTV News the lyric , `` My mother tried to run away from home , but I left something in the car , so I caught her in the driveway .
And she cried to me , so I cried too / And my stomach was soaking wet , she 's only 5 ' 2 . ''
He said : `` When I was going through the creative process for So Far Gone , I was actually at a pretty dark place in my life .
It was a frustrating time for my family , because my grandmother - who is now in her mid - to late 90s - was just losing it .
It was hard for my mother to watch .
And it was just , it was really at a point where it was like , ` Is this rap thing going to work ? '
Like , ` Is this my choice ?
Is this what I am committing to ? '
Money was an issue .
Degrassi -LSB- which Drake starred on as a teen -RSB- had ended years ago , and we were just all kind of trying to figure stuff out.So my mother was going through a rough time .
And yeah , man , one night she just broke down and tried to actually run away from the house , tried to leave it all behind .
It was just a lot going on , and she never would have really left .
She would 've always come back , but it was just a frustrating moment for her .
So I had forgot something in my car , and I came outside and I saw bags sitting by her car .
I saw her out there , and she just started crying right away when she saw me .
Anyway , I do n't wan na get too emotional , but I had to hug her .
My father does n't stay with us , so I had to be security for her and just let her know that everything is going to be all right . ''
This song features Drake 's friend Trey Songz and his mentor Lil Wayne .
Songz told MTV News about his involvement in the song `` Drake told me back in January he was gon na do another mixtape .
At first , he was calling me about interludes and trying to segue his singing into his rapping .
That did n't work out , because we could n't come to terms about what records I was going to be on .
Then he sent me this track one night .
I was in the studio when he sent it .
He said , ` Let me know what you think about it . '
It was simplistic , but it knocks .
It 's eerie , it 's dark .
The first thing I laid down was the gothic , reverb-driven harmony : ` arrrgh , arrrgh , arrrgh . '
I could n't think of what I wanted to hear on it , so I did a whole bunch of harmonies .
`` Songz then came up with the hook : He remembered : `` The first thing that came to mind was ' I want the money , money and the cars / Cars and the clothes / The ho 's / I suppose I just wan na be , I just wan na be successful . '
When I 'm saying all that , conceptually for me , the deepest part of the record was when I say , ' I suppose . '
I supposed that 's what success is about .
That 's what -LSB- we 're -RSB- led to believe .
`` Drake recalled : `` I opened it up in my e-mail , and I heard this hook , and it was so powerful to me , because he says all these things : ' I want the money , money and the cars . '
And it 's like , it 's almost like it made me feel like it may not be right what I want , you know ?
All these things , it 's like it made me feel young .
It kind of made me feel ignorant to the game .
But it was an exciting record even though the tempo is slow .
That 's what I want .
That 's what I 've been told is success : ` The money , the cars , the clothes and the ho 's .
I suppose . '
The ' I suppose ' moment in there is like , it 's almost like you 're doubting yourself for a second .
But at the end of the day , I just want to be successful .
So that 's what the record meant to me . ''
The first six songs of the So Far Gone mixtape tells the story of a relationship that Drake was in .
He told ShockHound that this track is his direct speech to her .
He explained : `` It says , ' I just want to be successful . '
It 's an actual conversation that I had with Trey Songz when I felt trapped in this relationship .
I told him , ' I really want to make this work .
I want to be successful , and I want to feel like I 'm doing everything I can to achieve that . ' ''
