Jeremy Camp told CCM magazine that this song expresses his renewed heart for evangelization .
He explained : `` I was getting to the place where I would ask God what He wanted to do with the new album .
I just said , ` I 've been doing this for six years now .
I do n't want to do the same old thing .
I want to take the next step and dive into what the next thing is . '
I was praying and praying and on my face ; and all of a sudden , God showed me this generation and the hurt and the urgency and desperation that He has .
I 've got this song called ` Speaking Louder Than Before , ' and I was on my face myself about everyday life , living my faith to the fullest , putting my words into action and serving people .
Mark 16:15 became the theme of this song about going to the nations and preaching the Gospel to every creature .
People are just crying out , and there 's all this going on .
It does n't mean that -LSB- we -RSB- have to go around yelling and screaming , but instead , just let our actions speak for us .
It means loving and serving and giving our lives .
So that 's what God 's just been doing in my heart . ''
This was helmed by the Grammy-winning producer Brown Bannister -LRB- Steven Curtis Chapman , Amy Grant , MercyMe -RRB- .
Camp told CCM magazine how Bannister was able to guide his music-making process to new places , even if it meant challenging what the songwriter was familiar with .
He explained : `` You always want to increase artistically .
God has given me this gift , so I do n't want to just leave it dormant or not use it to the full extent .
On this new record , musically , there are some amazing twists and turns that God gave us .
I think also that , vocally , I really challenged myself .
Brown was awesome in that -- to challenge me lyrically , making sure every word had a purpose .
I think I 've taken every little bit seriously , and I want to use it to the full extent .
I also wanted to have a little more drive on this record .
On the first single , you ca n't hear it because it 's a little more mellow , but most of the record has a more upbeat drive to it.Brown just told me that I should make sure that I have exhausted any possibilities musically and lyrically .
Exhausted is the key word .
We would always try different ideas , and even if they did n't work out , at least we tried .
I think that was a cool element .
I remember I would sing one thing , and he would ask me to raise it up or sing this word in this way .
If it was a desperate word , he would ask me to sing it with desperation , and it brought things to life . ''
