The third single from Kip Moore 's debut album Up All Night finds the singer offering to buy some beer for a downcast girl so she can drink those troubles away .
Moore penned the song with Blair Daly and Troy Verges .
The same trio also penned `` Where You Are Tonight '' from the same set .
This was the first song that Troy Verges penned with his friends Kip Moore and Blair Daly after taking time off for the 2011 festive period .
`` So we just showed up after Christmas break , kind of like when you 're going back to school ... ` What did you do over Christmas break ? '
, '' Verges recalled to Roughstock with a smile .
`` We were just talking a while .
Blair had that title , ` Beer Money , ' and Kip had been out doing a bunch of shows .
He had gotten into doing things that really spoke to his crowd and the people who were at his shows .
He had noticed how big of a deal it was for people and how much of a release it was to go to a show .
They bust their butt all week , and then they are able to go have fun on the weekends .
So we were kind of writing to them .
Kip knew exactly what he wanted to say in the song , and how he wanted it to sound and how he wanted to present himself , so it made it real easy to write . ''
`` We wrote that song on whatever day we wrote it on , and they cut it two days later , '' Verges continued .
`` It was a single by the end of the year .
It was the last # 1 song of last year .
All in one year , we wrote it , recorded it , singled it and it became a # 1 .
I 've never had it happen that fast .
It was all just perfect timing .
It was a fun write .
To be able to have that all together with your buddies is just perfect .
It 's a lot of fun . ''
Kip Moore grew up in the small town of Tifton , Georgia where he claims there was little for the locals to do apart from having a few cold beers on the weekend .
This song was born out of a conversation about the mundane life of someone living in a small town .
`` It 's an easy-going song for people who are sitting in that town with nothing to do , '' Moore said .
`` That is the town that I grew up in .
There was nothing to do , nothing to choose from , and a lot of times you felt like banging your fist against the wall , and the only release that you had was the weekend to go have a good time with your friends and your girlfriend , and you wanted to go and have some beers .
That is what the song is .
It 's just a feel-good release of that small town America life and what it 's like growing up . ''
