This is a track from Blues-Rock band The Black Crowes 2009 album Before the Frost ... Until the Freeze .
Before the Frost ... Until the Freeze was recorded live in five nights at the Woodstock , N.Y. , barn/studio of Levon Helm , the drummer of The Band .
Gorman explained to the California Chronicle September 1 , 2009 : `` We 're very happy with it .
We had no idea what to expect , really .
We had never done anything like that .
We started off with an initial idea that we would go into a regular studio and have a dozen or so fans in there to watch and it kind of snowballed into going to Levon Helm 's barn and studio up in Woodstock and having 200 people watching . ''
Gorman added : `` I think they loved it .
At first , they were a little taken aback .
I 'm sure it felt like a gig to them , but we 'd be in the middle of a song and then somebody would break a string or somebody would forget where the song goes or there would be a mistake and then we 'd just stop dead .
It was n't like a regular show because we 'd play the same song three or four times in a row until we got something we were happy with .
We would all laugh about it , but the first two or three times it happened they were sort of shocked , like , ` Oh no , something 's wrong . '
But that 's just making records , you know ?
So we would talk about it and remind whoever made a mistake or fix whatever went wrong .
Do n't forget , we were playing songs that we were n't that familiar with , so there was a lot of conversation before each take .
We were reminding ourselves of how the songs go as we went along .
`` For the fans that were there , it was definitely a whole new way of looking at the band and seeing how the band operates . ''
This Disco-Rock song was released as a free download a month before the release of the album .
Drummer Steve Gorman admitted to The Weekender : `` Um , that one song is definitely , I would n't say , indicative of the entire record , but it 's an extension of Warpaint in that it 's the same band two years later with 200 gigs under its belt . ''
The second part of the album title , -LRB- Until the Freeze ... -RRB- , refers to an extra nine-song collection of mostly acoustic , Country-tinged tunes that can be download after purchasing the physical disc .
