The `` Cloak of Elvenkind '' shows up in Dungeons & Dragons , which Marcy Playground lead singer John Wozniak would play when he was going to Evergreen State College in Olympia , Washington .
In our interview with John Wozniak , he said : `` It 's a role-playing game .
You had to have your friends around , and you read from the Dungeon Master Guide and the Monster Guide and all these books .
And it was all done in your imagination .
It was a game that was started in the '70s and then it was kind of big for a little bit in the '80s .
It 's a fantasy role-playing game .
It 's for total nerds .
Which is what I was .
And so the cloak of Elvenkind , the cloak and boots of Elvenkind , are from Dungeons & Dragons , so they 're made by elves .
So the cloak will make you invisible , and the boots will make you silent .
It 's a real obscure reference to a D&D thing , the books of magic spells and all that stuff .
But the idea is that you 're just going through life completely invisible and completely silent , and nobody pays attention to you .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- It 's different .
And that 's why ` my book of magic spells is behind everything else that 's proper for a boy . ' ''
Why are there `` Sixteen books of magic spells ? ''
Wozniak told us : `` It was just a good number .
I mean , that 's a lot of books on magic spells .
If you 're gon na have books on magic spells , you might as well have 16 of them .
You could have 17 , which would be one better .
But that would have too many syllables .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- It 's an obscure song , and it 's found a home with people who used to play D&D .
I mean , it 's actually kind of grown to be sort of a cult song on the Internet .
People cover it , and if you go to YouTube , there 's so many different covers of that song , simply because it is so obscure .
And I think it may be the only pop song ever written with Dungeons & Dragons references .
It 's not the only ... it 's probably the first .
I mean , when you see video games nowadays that are fantasy role-playing games , it 's the same thing .
It 's just this one you did with books and dice and your imagination .
But it was like crack .
It was so addictive to play . ''
Wozniak wrote this when he was a freshman in college around 1991 .
The song appeared on Marcy Playground 's debut album in 1997 , which contained the hit `` Sex and Candy . ''
