This song , says songwriter Tommy Lee James , is one he is particularly proud of .
Written in a single day with co-writer Karyn Rochelle , he tells how it came about : `` Karyn Rochelle is an amazing songwriter , and an amazing singer , too .
I ca n't really remember if she had the title or what .
But I kind of came up with part of the melody .
I wanted to write a really melodic kind of ballad .
And we really tried to find a real emotional strain there that we both liked .
I know I 'm really proud of that song .
And then to have a cut with Trisha Yearwood , I think she 's just the best Country singer .
She 's just an amazing singer . ''
John Corbett -LRB- Northern Exposure , Sex and the City , My Big Fat Greek Wedding -RRB- plays Yearwood 's lover in the music video .
James was 12 or 13 years old the first time he experimented with songwriting .
Describing himself as a `` slow learner , '' he joined a band and began the `` copycat '' phase of his young career .
`` We did all the things that everybody did ; you hear stuff and you try to recreate it . ''
After a few years of that , he packed his bags and hit the road to Nashville , convinced he was going to be the Next Big Thing .
`` I actually did n't move here to be a songwriter .
I basically moved here to be a singer .
That was my goal .
I mean , I could always sing and play .
I started playing ukulele and singing around my neighborhood when I was 6 or 7 years old , and everybody would be kind of patting me on the head , and encourage me .
I took piano lessons and did that whole deal .
But I just always thought that I was gon na be a singer , or a rock star or whatever .
Everybody told me I was , and I believed them .
`` But it 's only like that in a fairytale .
It was a much tougher slog than he anticipated .
`` You finally get here and you realize that the record deal is just the beginning , '' he confesses .
It 's ugly when the real world hits you square in the face .
`` When I got to Nashville I realized that a new artist is n't gon na get top shelf songs unless you 're one of the few on the label .
And so basically I was encouraged to start writing my own songs .
If you 're not going to be given a song , you 're going to have to try to write it .
I wrote about a thousand really bad songs .
It was total baby steps .
It was one of those things where I moved here and thought I was gon na be famous within the month , and I think two years later I finally got a publishing deal after moving here.It was quite a while before I even got my first cut .
But my record never actually came out .
The one thing that the record deal did for me was I started writing with a higher level of co-writers .
And it 's like playing tennis with somebody ; if you 're playing with somebody better than you , it 's going to make you better .
I was able to land a publishing deal with Reba McEntire 's company , Starstruck , and basically just started doing the Nashville co-writing thing every day .
And so by having a deal , it 's like people want to write with people who have record deals .
And I feel like I just kept improving and learning from the people who I was writing with , and kind of went from there .
And then one day I realized I 'm not on that road to being an artist , I 'm on the road to being a songwriter .
It 's a switch where you think you 're on one path , but you 're really on the other one .
And I just never stopped songwriting from that point on , and I never lost a lot of the contacts that I made when I had the record deal .
And it just kind of went from there .
`` Songwriters in Nashville , says Tommy , `` Do n't necessarily wait on inspiration .
I think the normal time here is 10:30 in the morning , and you have an appointment with either one or two people usually , and you start throwing out ideas with each other .
And hopefully you come up with a verse and chorus by lunch , you go eat lunch , and you write the second verse after lunch -LRB- laughs -RRB- and do a little work tape .
It 's kind of an unnatural process .
And then once you 've got four or five songs that you feel are worthy , you do a demo session with live players .
That 's how they do it here .
And that was 20 years ago for me , and it 's still kind of how they do it here.And it 's necessary to keep expanding your circle of co-writers , since it 's a very intertwined community .
Tommy says he 's not as open to working with new writers as he used to be , but warns that it 's not good to pass up opportunities ; you never know when you 're going to be paired with an exceptional talent .
`` The Nashville thing is almost like going to school , '' says James .
`` You learn how to do it on a real grassroots level , and once you kind of learn that process , nobody can really ever take that away from you .
It 's a craft that you learn , and you know how to do , but you still have to have the inspiration . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Tommy Lee James . -RRB-
