Along with the rest of the album , this song was produced by Youth -LRB- Primal Scream , The Verve -RRB- .
Frontman Barry Hyde told local Portsmouth newspaper The News : `` Youth is a fantastic producer .
I find that producers have very different methods of working , but Youth 's main goal from a session is to get the musicians in the right frame of mind - the frame of mind to be creative . ''
In a video which appeared on YouTube , Futureheads singer Barry Hyde explained why the band released this single and their new album on their own record label , Nul Records : `` We 're trying to prove that bands do n't need to be exploited by record companies in order to make music .
We just want to make pure music for your enjoyment . ''
Guitarist Ross Millard added : `` If we can get this single in the charts on our own terms with the help of our fanbase then that is a real achievement and a real message to the dinosaurs in the music industry that their tried-and-tested techniques are n't working anymore and the future of music lies with the fans and the artists . ''
The song 's video has been compared to A-Ha 's promo for `` Take On Me . ''
James Appleton , who directed the video , explained in The New Musical Express March 1 , 2008 : `` I was definitely keen to avoid the clichés of performance videos like the band playing in a huge warehouse and big stadium lights in the background .
So while I was working on the early stages of the treatment , I thought of doing a video that actually exposed the mechanics of video production itself .
My aim was to try and get the video to have one foot in the '80s and one foot in the modern era .
There 's definitely an influence of ` Take On Me ' by A-Ha in there , but without the love interest .
I grew up in the '80s and that was a video that I remember everyone talking about in the playground when it first came out .
There 's another reference to that decade with the blue and red arrows with zig-zag lines in them-they 're based on a pair of curtains I had when I was a kid !
I thought Barry Hyde 's bow-tie added a touch of class too-he bought that along himself because I think he 's been wearing it on tour . ''
Bassist Dave ` Jaff ' Craig explained to Digital Spy about this song : '' ` The Beginning of the Twist ' refers to when things start to change - that could be about us starting our own label or about the music industry in general .
Then of course there 's the whole allegory with relationships and things like that . ''
