Bassist Nicky Wire edited the lyrics of this sad and emotive farewell piece down from a long prose piece penned by Richey Edwards .
The lyrics were in a folder that the Manics guitarist gave to Wire in early 1995 , shortly before he disappeared presumed dead .
On the face of it the words appear to be the suicide note that Richey Edwards never left behind .
However Wire told The Guardian May 8 , 2009 that he thinks the lyric is n't about Edwards , but nevertheless , the process of editing it down was `` pretty choking . ''
Wire told the NME that `` Richey was a master of the lyric and he treated it as his art form . ''
He added that this song , `` perhaps , maybe that could have been the next step that he was going for . ''
Mojo magazine June 2009 asked Wire why he sang this song , rather than the Manic 's usual vocalist James Dean Bradfield .
He replied : `` The main reason is that I wrote the music .
James said , ' I think you should sing this one , it 's going to resonate much more . '
There 's no catharsis involved , it just felt really sweet . ''
The NME May 16 , 2009 asked Wire if within the notebooks containing Edwards ' lyrics , there were any sort of ambiguities of grammar , or moments where he was concerned that , by editing this , he might change the meaning .
Wire replied that this song was `` the only one really , '' as it `` is probably two pages of A4 , and it was obviously condensed into a very short lyric .
And when you hear it now , it obviously sounds very autobiographical , and very sad and like some kind of goodbye . ''
He added : `` The original does seem to be about a character , Richey was fascinated with the film The Entertainer with Laurence Olivier , Archie , you know , the sad music hall kind of thing .
There 's obviously huge analogies when you 're reading it , because it does seem to relate to him .
But to edit that down ... '' Wire wrote the music for this song and also sings it .
In an interview with Q magazine June 2009 , the interviewer commented that he 'd recorded a very vulnerable vocal .
He replied : `` It is .
It 's a proper goose-bumps moment .
I 'm not looking forward to singing it live .
Just that line , ` Leave me go , Jesus , I love you / Yeah , I love you , just let me go / I even love the devil , even though he did me harm / Do n't keep me longer cos I 'm really tired / I just wan na go to sleep and wake up happy . '
What poetry that is .
It 's beautiful . ''
Wire told Mojo : `` It 's the one lyric -LRB- on the album -RRB- I 've looked into .
Richey was obsessed with Archie Rice in The Entertainer , the Olivier film about the showman who 's just on his arse .
Whether it 's autobiographical or some kind of analogy , I do n't know , but it obviously sounds like it is . ''
