Mary Whitehouse died in 2001 , ten years after the release of this epiphet-ridden , tasteless , uninspired , hate-filled `` song '' .
If she had heard it should would undoubtedly have departed this Earth a full decade earlier .
Co-written by Cube and a number of his gangsta crew , according to the 1994 publication The Book of Lists : The '90s Edition , by David Wallechinsky and Amy Wallace , `` No Vaseline '' appears on Adam Block 's Secret Subjects of 15 Pop Songs .
Actually , it was never that secret , this is what is known as a diss track , and was directed by Cube at his former bandmates in NWA , and most vehemently against his former manager Jerry Heller -LRB- see a picture -RRB- , who was not only white but Jewish .
It includes the couplet : `` Get rid of that devil real simple , Put a bullet in his temple ... `` This led to Cube being denounced by the Simon Wiesenthal Center , which obviously read anti-Semitism into his posturings .
In the November 2 , 1991 edition of the Los Angeles Times , Brian Turner , President of Cube 's record company Priority responded , `` Ice Cube 's lyrics represent nothing more than a macho put-down kind of thing that stems from a long-standing feud between Cube and his former group , N.W.A. and that group 's manager , Jerry Heller . ''
It was not , he said , `` anti-Semitic '' .
Cube himself was quoted `` I 'm not against Jews in either of those songs ... '' The `` either '' was a reference to `` True Game '' .
So there you have it , Ice Cube is not anti-Semitic .
Oh that 's all right then , let him incite the murder of his former manager , it 's not racial bigotry , just plain old-fashioned malice .
This puerile garbage runs to 5 minutes 13 seconds and was produced by Cube and Sir Jinx .
The Wiesenthal Center called for a boycott of the song , and of course this had the effect such boycotts always have.According to the aforementioned Book Of Lists , in England the police were prepared to destroy 23,000 copies of the record , and Island Records spent $ 40,000 defending it against an obscenity charge.It does n't take much imagination to figure out what Cube is doing without Vaseline .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for above 3 -RRB- `` No Vaseline '' is also an answer song of sorts , the first part refers to the NWA track `` Message To B.A. '' , which is itself a reference to Benedict Ice Cube Arnold .
