This is the first single and only original song from Canadian pop-R & B singer Justin Bieber 's acoustic album , My Worlds Acoustic .
The song finds Justin offering an inspirational outlook on the future .
It is described by the press release as an `` optimistic '' and `` uplifting '' track that reflects the spirit of the album .
Justin started playing the acoustic guitar when he was a kid , and he went back to his original roots for My Worlds Acoustic , which mainly comprises unplugged versions of favorite songs of his fans .
The arrangements reflect Justin 's early days with merely an acoustic guitar or a lone piano and the Canadian singer plays guitar on the album alongside his musical director and fellow guitarist Dan Kanter .
Justin has made references to his Christian faith in several interviews so it is not surprising that one of this songs ' lyrics , `` I pray for the life not started , '' appears to be a veiled statement of pro-life beliefs .
The song 's music video features mixes images of natural disasters and war with shots of Justin meeting with fans in the hospital and footage of him performing .
The clip closes with a Mother Teresa quote : `` God speaks in the silence of the heart .
Listening is the beginning of prayer . ''
Unlike the other strictly acoustic tracks on the album , this song features a string section , synthesizers and congas .
The percussion represents inspiration from Justin 's worldly travels , including to Africa .
Justin told Ryan Seacrest on his radio show on November 17 , 2010 : `` It 's a very uplifting song , very motivational .
It definitely comes from the heart .
It 's very beautiful .
I definitely thought of Michael -LSB- Jackson 's -RSB- ` Man In The Mirror , ' when I was writing it . ''
Justin is donating part of the proceeds from My Worlds Acoustic to the Children 's Miracle Network .
`` I am in the position to give back thanks to my fans and God , '' he said in a press release .
`` I wrote ` Pray ' thinking I wanted to help others and I feel like I have a responsibility to do so .
What is the point of doing all this if you ca n't make a difference in others ' lives ?
This album is a gift to my fans and the money raised from it allows us all to help out . ''
Albanian born Mother Teresa -LRB- 1910-1997 -RRB- was a Catholic nun who founded the Missionaries of Charity in Calcutta , India in 1950 .
Over the next decades her organization established schools and opened centers to treat the blind , aged , lepers , disabled and dying throughout the world .
By the time of her death , missions of her order existed in more than 90 countries and had grown to include 40,000 nuns and many more lay workers and volunteers .
Following her death she was beatified by Pope John Paul II and given the title Blessed Teresa of Calcutta .
