The guitarist of The Calling , Aaron Kamin , wrote this song which caught on with the touching message of following someone to the ends of the earth .
Aaron explained in a radio interview : `` At the time my grandmother 's best friend had passed away and she left behind a husband of 50 or more years and I was at the funeral and afterwards I just started thinking of what it would be like to be him and have your whole life change so dramatically and not for the best in a matter of moments .
Somebody that you live and grow with and are one with , just to be gone , is crazy and I figured all he ever thinks about probably is finding a way to get back to her or be with her or make sure she 's alright or something like that .
That was the sentiment behind that . ''
There are two versions of this video .
The first was made in Mexico and the other , better known version was made in an LA sewer .
Nigel Dick , who directed the LA video , realized they had to make a new one because the first one did n't fit well with the song .
The new one did extremely well on MTV 's Total Request Live .
-LRB- thanks , Audrey - LA , CA -RRB- The album was a surprise hit , selling over 800,000 copies , but it caused a lot of tension in the band when drummer Nate Wood and bass player Billy Mohler left the band in 2003 and sued Kamin and lead singer Alex Band , claiming they were not properly paid for their contributions .
This song was featured in commercials promoting the TV series Star Trek : Enterprise .
Camino Palmero was first album for The Calling , who released just one more before splitting up in 2005 .
The band got a big break when they performed `` Wherever You Will Go '' in the 2000 movie Coyote Ugly .
London born singer-guitarist Charlene Soraia recorded a cover of this song to soundtrack an advert for Twinings tea .
Her version entered the UK singles chart in October 2011 after being made available for download and it eventually spent 24 weeks on the tally , peaking at # 3 .
Soraia attended the Brit School , where other pupils at the time included Adele , Rox and Kate Nash .
