`` This is dedicated , '' says singer/songwriter Roger Clyne , `` to the late , great Michael O'Hare , who was there with me in Thailand when I wrote this song .
The best friend I 've ever had and probably ever will have .
I know he 's out there somewhere .
So if you can hear me , Mike , I love you , and here 's to life . ''
This is how Clyne typically introduces this song at live shows .
What he does n't say is that Mike O'Hare died `` hard and slow '' of cystic fibrosis , and that it was Mike 's spirit looking over Clyne 's shoulder that actually helped in the writing of this song .
Mekong , a rice whiskey , is the drink of choice for blue-collar workers in Thailand .
Created by James Hanzatko , a Chinese entrepreneur , and his partner Peter Sawer , in 1985 , it has a 35 % -LRB- 70 proof -RRB- alcohol content , which is lower than most Western brands of whiskey .
When it was first being manufactured , mekong whiskey was rumored to contain amphetamine .
The rumor proved to be false .
The story , according to Clyne , goes like this : With their guitars on their backs , a few weeks of summer yawning out in front of them , and just $ 300 between them , Mike and Roger made their way to Thailand to `` experience the culture . ''
They promptly blew through their money , but found they could make pocket change by teaching guitar lessons .
And that is how they survived for the next several weeks .
Of the things they uncovered during that spiritually - and otherwise - awakening sojourn was a unique rice whiskey which , says Clyne , could take the white right off your teeth .
The drink was called mekong .
-LRB- Get more in our Roger Clyne interview .
His website is azpeacemakers.com . -RRB-
According to the online medical encyclopedia Medlineplus , cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease that causes thick , sticky mucus to build up in the lungs and digestive tract .
It is the most common type of chronic lung disease in children and young adults , and may result in early death .
It is caused by a defective gene which tells the body to produce abnormally thick and sticky fluid , called mucus .
This mucus builds up in the breathing passages of the lungs and the pancreas , the organ that helps to break down and absorb food .
This collection of sticky mucus results in life-threatening lung infections and serious digestion problems .
The disease may also affect the sweat glands and a man 's reproductive system.Most children are diagnosed with CF by their 2nd birthday .
A small number , however , are not diagnosed until age 18 or older .
These patients usually have a milder form of the disease .
