MGMT is an American band based in Brooklyn , New York , consisting of Ben Goldwasser and Andrew VanWyngarden .
They achieved a commercial breakthrough with the release of their first major label album , Oracular Spectacular .
On the pair 's sophomore release , Congratulations , the duo reflect on their massive rise in popularity .
VanWyngarden told Q magazine : `` The title ties into this cynical philosophy I have .
It 's like , Congratulations , you 're Bono , you 've made it .
But what do you really have ?
You still do n't have any answers . ''
VanWyngarden explained to the NME that the title track is an in-joke : `` We actually decided to call it ` Congratulations ' while we were writing the songs for the first album and we thought we should stick with that because it means something different new .
We think it 's excited .
We 're excited because a lot of people will see it as a pat on the back to ourselves and really it 's a bit more sinister and sarcastic than that . ''
The striking video was shot in widescreen and shows the duo walking in the desert with an unusual creature that slowly decays along the voyage .
The clip was directed by Tom Kuntz and edited by Steve Gandolfi , who explained to the video trade publication Studio Daily : `` I love the track and probably listened to it 1,000 times and it never got old .
Tom wanted the mood to be moving and thoughtful , with time for the narrative to unfold .
The edit followed suit .
Everything -- each shot , frame , movement , is all choreographed in time with the music .
Every edit made worked within this very strict visual orchestration .
Tom also carefully considered every way in which the clip might be viewed -- including on the iPhone -- so we experimented with framing and tech specs so that it would be received well in any situation . ''
VanWyngarden explained the acoustic title track to the San Francisco Examiner : `` The song ` Congratulations ' itself is pretty dark .
It 's us trying to deal with all the craziness that 's been going on since our last album took off .
Sometimes it just does n't feel natural . ''
The song 's lyrics also refer to the worldwide recession , and how MGMT magically floated on top of it .
VanWyngarden told Spin Magazine : `` I was working on the lyrics while we were on the road .
Some of it is about the worldwide economic crisis and how - thankfully - we were able to continue making music through it .
But it 's also from the perspective of other musicians , and about how fame and all the stuff it affords does n't get you any answers .
Maybe that 's a cynical outlook . ''
Kid Cudi sampled this for his Indicud track , `` Immortal . ''
Ben Goldwasser commented to NME : `` I think it 's funny to hear a song like that with a really huge beat underneath it . ''
