Keith wrote this song as a tribute to his friend and fellow Oklahoman Wayman Tisdale , a basketball player and jazz musician , who passed away in on Friday 15th May 2009 .
His cause of death was an oesophagus collapse due to the chemo Wayman was getting to treat his cancer .
Keith recalled to The Boot that when he received the news of his friend 's death : `` I reeled around there for two days in a stupor .
He was a great guy with a charismatic smile , and the closest thing to Jesus I 've ever met .
There 's a line in the song that says , ` You showed me how to live . '
He was a perfect , perfect human .
I got up Sunday morning , realized I was just going to have to face it all - could n't believe that he was gone .
We had gotten really , really close .
I was the first one he would call when he would come out of surgery .
He passed away on May 15 .
Anyway , I got up Sunday morning , called his cell phone to hear his voice one more time , I grabbed my guitar and sat down and wrote this song , and went in and put it on the album . ''
Keith told CMT News that he originally penned this song just to be played at Wayman 's funeral .
He explained : `` At first , I just wanted to do it at his funeral , something really personal - a gift from me to the world , to the funeral in his world .
That 's what he was to me , a gentlemen and just the perfect person he was .
After I wrote it , I said , `` I 've got to record this thing . ''
So the beauty of it was Dave Koz , the jazz sax player , Marcus Miller , another one of his jazz buddies , were all there playing at the funeral , so I asked both of them , `` I 've got this song for him .
Do you guys want to play on it ? ''
So Marcus played bass , and Koz is playing sax .
It ended up being a really nice tribute . ''
The song features jazz bassist Marcus Miller and saxophonist Dave Koz , both friends of Wayman .
Keith told CMT News the `` jazz stuff '' on this song , `` is something for me I 've never ever done .
We laid some chords in there that when Koz and Marcus Miller played on them , they would have stuff to work with from their world .
I never put jazz changes in anything I 've done , so that 's one of them . ''
