In 2009 Travie McCoy broke-up with singer Katy Perry , after they had dated for several years .
This moody song , in which McCoy revisits his emo roots , is about the healing process after the emotionally wounding ending of their relationship .
He explained to Alternative Press : '' ` Need You ' is about how when you get out of a long relationship , you 're kind of like bruised fruit for a while .
This is about me trying to explain to someone that as much as I would love to start a relationship , or as much as I would love to take things further with this particular person , I 'm still kind of a little f -- ked up from my last relationship .
Basically , I 'm saying there are a lot of issues and other things that I need to clear up with myself before I can give you what you need .
The hook is , ` That 's why I need time . '
I mean , after a long relationship , you need time to heal and reassess what it takes to make a relationship work .
I think it 's all a learning process .
` Need You ' is explaining the space in-between relationships when you 're trying to figure things out .
This song has gotten such a great response at shows because , for as sad as it sounds , it 's an up-tempo song and when it gets to the chorus , it explodes .
Everyone is jumping up and down and having a good time . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Luga Podesta and shot in Chinatown in Los Angeles .
McCoy told MTV News : `` I 'd equate it to , kind of like Michael Jackson 's ` The Way You Make Me Feel ' video .
You know , I 'm kind of pursuing this chick .
But , take out Michael Jackson and add Shrek .
In Chinatown . ''
McCoy explained the song 's music video to MTV News : `` The concept of the song is basically me explaining to a girl that I 'm not in a position to give her what she needs , and that 's always tough , especially when you have feelings for someone , '' he said .
`` So the video is definitely relationship -LSB- based . -RSB-
But , in this situation , she does n't take it too well .
Let 's just say that . ''
Shooting music videos is n't all glamour .
McCoy told MTV News : `` There 's a scene we shot with rain .
It was about 6 in the morning , it was freezing , and we had to do it about three times , and I was soaking wet in this fake rain .
I had this in-ear monitor that was wireless , and it was getting wet and shorting out , so there 's a part where I could n't hear the words , and I probably was pretty close to getting electrocuted , but , overall , it was a fun time , man . ''
