The title refers to the state of the United States at that point in time .
It speaks of a nation controlled by the new , biased media , and how the singer is not part of a `` Redneck Agenda '' discontent with how things are going .
It was released during the 2004 presidential campaign , where George W. Bush was re-elected .
-LRB- thanks , Joe - Columbia , MD -RRB- Weird Al Yankovic parodied this song on his 2006 album Straight Outta Lynwood .
This is one of 2 Green Day songs that is also the name of the album it comes from .
The other is `` Warning . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France , for above 2 -RRB- Billie Joe Armstrong was inspired to write this after hearing a jingoistic Lynyrd Skynyrd song being played on his car radio , whilst driving to the studio .
He told Q magazine May 2009 : `` It was like , I 'm proud to be a redneck and I was like , Oh my God , why would you be proud of something like that ?
This is exactly what I 'm against .
When he got to the studio , Armstrong furiously penned this song .
He said : `` I looked at the guys like , Do you mind that I 'm saying this ?
And they were like , No , we agree with you .
And it started the ball rolling . ''
Green Day performed this at the 2005 Grammy awards .
The album won for Best Rock Album .
On the Nickelodeon TV show All That , they make fun of the TV show American Idol with a sketch called American Idiot .
In 2006 grocery clerk Paul McPike sued Green Day , alleging that he 'd written `` American Idiot '' and the other songs on their album way back in 1992 .
McPike 's evidence consisted entirely of a copy of the album and a claim that the lyrics sung on the album did n't match those in the sleeve notes .
The US District Court Judge suggested he could file a more detailed copyright infringement complaint in the future .
Billie Joe Armstrong told Spin magazine in November 2004 regarding the American Idiot album : `` It 's about the confusion of where we 're at right now .
My education was punk rock - what the Dead Kennedys said , what Operation Ivy said .
It was attacking America , but it was American at the same time . ''
