This song finds Atkins singing about the love between a father and son .
The Country star has a son named Elijah , who he previously wrote about in his 2006 single `` Watching You . ''
He told Billboard magazine : `` That little boy I 'm singing about from ` Watching You , ' - my four year old who said a four letter word , turned ten this week .
The song is one of the edgiest things I 've ever cut .
I think we blew up an amp .
It 's really about unconditional love . ''
Atkins told Taste Of Country that he first heard the tune in the mid 2000s when he was doing the If You 're Going Through Hell album .
`` I loved the song , '' he said .
`` It seems like it 's dark from the front of it , but it 's not .
I love the language .
The way I grew up , I could see that happen ... the old man knocking on the front door , having him by the collar ... just kind of accusatory .
I 've been there , and I can see that picture in my head .
I think it 's very real , and it says it in a different way .
If it can connect , that will be great , because I 've seen that reaction live and I really believe in the song and what it says .
It has got a different edge .
I love the song . ''
This song about the unconditional love a parent has for a son was penned by Nashville songwriters Phil O'Donnell , Tim James and Casey Beathard .
The song was originally going to be titled `` She 's Mine , '' with lyrics about a little rebellious girl .
After the trio stumbled around for a bit with that concept Beathard came up with idea of calling it `` He 's Mine '' instead and mixing together parts of their kids with memories of when they themselves were young . ''
-LSB- In this song , there 's -RSB- little parts of our place out here in Hickman County , -LSB- Tenn. -RSB- , '' noted O'Donnell to Taste of Country .
`` We have a holler where the kids go to play pinball and shoot .22 rifles .
Casey has a house by a big ol' holler in the Thompson Station area , and let 's just say Tim is the kid smoking in the song when he was young -LSB- laughs -RSB- ! ''
