This is the title track of American alternative rock band My Morning Jacket 's sixth album .
The song was recorded inside a church 's converted gymnasium in the band 's hometown of Louisville , Kentucky .
Said frontman Jim James : `` I hate the phrase ` going back to our roots ' , but for this record we came home and made it in Kentucky .
And it just felt a lot like it did when we were first starting out . ''
According to a review on the Antiquiet site , this spaced-out seven minute jam fosters , `` the album 's central themes about growing older and wiser , but with a respect for past experiences . ''
The seven-minute song builds to a long crescendo around James ' voice and dueling guitar and piano .
The band nailed the recording that can be heard on the record on just the second take .
James co-produced the record with Tucker Martine .
The pair first worked together when James appeared on Laura Veirs ' album July Flame in 2010 , which Martine , Veirs ' husband , also produced .
James discussed his songwriting process for Circuital with American Songwriter : `` It just kind of comes in waves , that 's the way my brain works .
I work in a three-part phase , where something has to come to me in a very raw , rough form , like a melody and a drum beat .
Then I 'll take some time at home and sit with it and work with it , and try to make it a more realized thing .
The third step is to show it to the guys and see what they think about it , throw our input on it , and turn it into what it becomes for us .
It 's weird .
Unless something comes , I do n't have a reason to sit down and work , or sit down at a desk with a guitar and start strumming to see what happens . ''
Jim James explained the song 's meaning to UK newspaper The Sun : `` It 's about life 's circular nature ... How we are all born of this crazy void that nobody can really describe or put a name to .
Even though we try with religion and new age philosophy , no one really knows for sure.We are born and we travel around life 's ` circuit ' then we all complete the circle and return back to the same void from where we came to pass on to something different . ''
