This slow , tickling number features Barbadian singer Rihanna and was produced by J.R. Rotem -LRB- Sean Kingston , Nicole Scherzinger -RRB- .
Minaj and Rihanna also teamed up for the latter 's Loud track `` Raining Men . ''
Rihanna told MTV News the two ladies had been collaborating with one another for quite some time .
`` We did work together on music for -LSB- Loud track -RSB- as well as -LSB- for my 2009 release -RSB- Rated R , '' she explained .
`` It was the end of the album , but she was sending me these incredible songs .
Like I wanted some up-tempo stuff from her that was kind of gangsta , but she sent me these ballads and they were beautiful and I could n't believe that it was a female MC writing these songs .
She 's really talented and I want to work with her again . ''
Minaj explained the song 's meaning on her website : `` This song is a female empowerment song .
But then again , its not specific to just women .
It speaks about flying , soaring high ... in the face of every single solitary adversity that comes your way .
I speak about how the media has attempted to box me in and how that has made me feel suffocated .
After years of being dragged thru the mud , I 've mustered up the courage to re-define myself .
I believe that I represent an entire generation .
My fans have become my family ; and together we have become a movement .
Get ready for it .
We came to win . ''
Like Barbadian native Rihanna , Minaj was born on a West Indian island - Trinidad .
The New York MC said on her website : '' ` FLY ' is one of my absolute faves .
I wanted to work with Rihanna for a long time .
I 'm very proud of her accomplishments ; especially since she was born on an island like me . ''
J.R. Rotem told MTV News how Minaj reached out to him , to include this tune as a last-minute addition to the album : `` Near the tail end of her project , I came into the studio and I had some tracks -LSB- for her -RSB- .
That was one of the ones I was excited about , '' he explained .
`` When I played it for her , she knew instantly : ` Yes , this is the record . '
She connected with it immediately .
I could just tell she was excited by it , which excited me . ''
