This is the second American single from Colombian singer-songwriter Shakira 's third English studio album , She Wolf .
It is part of the bonus content that is exclusive to the US release of the record .
The song is basically about sex and one of the lines , -LRB- `` got this she wolf appetite that keeps me up all night '' -RRB- , namechecks the album title and lead single .
Shakira explained the video to MTV News : `` It was a collaboration between this friend of mine who 's a dancer , and me .
She showed me this contemporary dance piece that was produced in Iceland .
So we said , ` Hey , maybe we could do something like this for `` Did It Again . '' '
So we brought this choreographer from Iceland from this contemporary dance company , and we worked on this piece .
And I decided to bring a little bit of this painter , -LSB- Lawrence -RSB- Alma-Tadema , who portrays women in these bathrooms , these Turkish bathrooms , and I wanted to bring a little bit of that poetic imagery to this video , '' she continued .
`` And I remember not too long ago having watched a few women turn their heads in a trans in Morocco .
So we brought all these pieces - Moroccan women twirling and turning their heads , and the poetry from Alma-Tadema 's paintings , plus this Icelandic contemporary dance piece - and we mixed all these pieces together for the video . ''
The song features rapper Lil Wayne and was produced by Timbaland .
The Hip Hop producer had originally recorded it for his 2009 album , Shock Value II .
In the song 's music video , Shakira combines three different dance techniques .
The Colombian singer-songwriter infused Jamaican dancehall with the African-American tradition of `` stepping , '' which is a form of percussive dance in which the participant 's entire body is used as an instrument to produce complex rhythms and sounds through a mixture of footsteps , spoken word , and hand claps .
For an added twist , she learned a traditional Thai dance sequence , which she incorporated in the routine .
Shakira 's male counterpart in the video is Daniel `` Cloud '' Campos , a dancer who 's worked with Madonna .
