This song , built around Bernard Edwards ' distinctive bassline , is one of the most copied and sampled records ever .
With two copies of the record , DJs could create a continuous loop of the instrumental groove , providing a perfect foundation for MCs to rap over .
Rap was emerging at New York block parties , and when Sylvia Robinson assembled The Sugarhill gang to put a rap song on record , it was `` Good Times '' that they used for the track , looping it in the studio just like DJs did at the block parties , and even incorporating the string hits from the song .
The result was `` Rapper 's Delight , '' which was released later in 1979 .
It sold a bunch of 12 '' singles and made the US Top-40 and UK Top-10 , becoming the first rap song to do so.Nile Rodgers of Chic knew that his song was a block party favorite , but he did n't hear `` Rapper 's Delight '' until he was in a club and the DJ played it .
He vigorously objected to the use of his song as the track for another , and threatened legal action .
Rather than fight it , Sugarhill Records settled with Chic and awarded them full composer credit , so Edwards and Rodgers are listed as the only songwriters on `` Rapper 's Delight . ''
With no lawsuit , there was no precedent set for sampling , and artists began incorporating tracks from other songs with impunity throughout the '80s .
It was Gilbert O ' Sullivan whose 1991 lawsuit against Biz Markie finally established the legal ruling that samples must be cleared .
Another song heavily influenced by `` Good Times '' was `` Another One Bites The Dust '' by Queen .
Bernard Edwards told the New Musical Express : `` Well , that Queen record came about because that bass player spent some time hanging out with us at our studio .
But that 's OK .
What is n't OK is that the press started saying that we had ripped them off !
Can you believe that ?
` Good Times ' came out more than a year before , but it was inconceivable to these people that black musicians could possibly be innovative like that .
It was just these dumb Disco guys ripping off this Rock 'n' Roll song . ''
In early 2011 , this song was used in a commercial for the Hershey 's Drops candy .
-LRB- thanks , Jerro - New Alexandria , PA -RRB- The song is a joyful look back at the roller-disco decade in which after Nixon and Vietnam and the times of recession better days seemed to be ahead .
The lyric , `` Our new state of mind '' is often mistaken to be `` Are you straight or bi ? ''
-LRB- thanks , Mjn Seifer - England -RRB-
