Lead singer Chester Bennington wrote this to express the anger he felt growing up .
He did n't fit in well and got beat up a lot .
This song was made after the band had frustrations making `` Runaway , '' another song on the album .
-LRB- thanks , William - Indiana , IN -RRB- Linkin Park performed this on the 2001 MTV Video Music awards with turntable group The X-ecutioners .
On their 2002 album Reanimation , this was remixed by The Humble Brothers with vocals by Korn lead singer Jonathan Davis .
The title was changed to `` 1Stp Klosr . ''
The vocals to `` One Step Closer '' were recorded in Mike Shinoda 's flat one night while an angry neighbor hammered on the wall .
He could n't hear the actual music , just Chester Bennington screaming into the microphone .
Chester Bennington recalled to Kerrang !
January 29 , 2011 how the band were forced to fight for this song during the recording sessions for Hybrid Theory : `` When we were recording it , -LRB- producer -RRB- Don Gilmore was really drilling me and Mike -LRB- Shinoda -RRB- about lyrics , and it had gotten to the point where we had rewritten some songs 30 times !
I remember walking into the control room , handing Don the lyrics and he grabbed them , passed them in front of his face without even looking , handed them back to me , and told me to do it again .
I lost my f -- ing mind , thinking , ` This guy 's a f -- ing maniac ! '
But that kind of inspired the lyrics - ' I can not take this anymore/I 'm saying everything I 've said before / All these words make no sense , ' and the chorus , ` Everything you say to me takes me one step closer to the edge . '
- it all came from that frustration .
So I guess in the end he inspired me the way he wanted to . ''
Bennington wanted kids who hate themselves at times to know that he went through the same thing .
He did not intend it as an excuse for self-pity or anger .
Hybrid Theory was the original name of the band .
They used it as the name of the album , which was the best-selling album of 2001 .
A version featuring Staind lead singer Aaron Lewis appears on the album Family Values Tour 2001 .
After 15-year-old Charles Andrew Williams killed 2 people and wounded 13 in a shooting spree at his school in Santee , California , the NBC show Dateline interviewed one of his friends , who claimed that Linkin Park 's music inspired Williams to kill .
This song was cited as one that encouraged Williams , with the lyrics , `` Everything you say takes me one step closer to the edge and I 'm about to break . ''
Mike Shinoda in Kerrang !
magazine January 26 , 2008 : `` This was written in my apartment .
The music came together quickly but the lyrics took a few tries .
I wrote ` Shut Up ' as a rough example for Chester to scream and we kept that lyric .
I remember thinking that was a great calling-card song .
It said , ` Hello , we are going to crush you . ' ''
