Country quartet Eli Young Band formed in 2000 in Denton , Texas , where vocalist Mike Eli and guitarist James Young met as freshman roommates at the University of North Texas .
With the addition of drummer Chris Thompson and bassist Jon Jones , the band became local favorites , built a strong fan base through frequent touring and released two independent albums before striking a deal with Universal Music Group .
In 2008 , they released their major-label debut , Jet Black & Jealous .
This sweet country-pop ballad is the lead-off single from their sophomore major label album .
The song has been a fan favorite since the group started performing it the summer of 2010 on the big Country Throwdown Tour .
Brice wrote the song with Liz Rose , who also has co-penned several of Taylor Swift 's hits .
Rose told Taste of Country that the idea for the song came after the two began talking about how `` females -LSB- ... -RSB- have our crazy moments '' .
She added , regarding the opening stanza , `` I know I 've had those relationships on both sides , where you wanted to tell somebody -LSB- ... -RSB- ` Why do n't you just chill ?
I 'm not going anywhere ! ''
Brice paid tribute to his co-writer in the same interview : `` The way she writes and the way I like to write , we just kind of dove in , '' says Brice of writing the ` Crazy Girl ' lyrics .
`` That melody just took us to a place .
It was kind of a sensitive kind of song , but it still had this edge to it that was really cool .
We just went for it.It was one of those days that seems like it just flew by , '' he continued .
`` It was just a couple of hours that it took for us to write that song .
Sometimes songs that sound that simple , sometimes those are the hardest to write .
It was n't .
That one came together really sweet that day .
Magic was in the air . ''
The song was written by the Country singer-songwriter Lee Brice when he was in the middle of recording songs for his own record .
Jon Jones told The Boot how he persuaded him to let his band have the tune .
He explained : `` I said , ` Lee , I know you 're thinking about putting it on your record , and it 's great , but it actually sounds more us than it does you .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- It would be really great if you let us record it . '
He 's a super nice guy , and he writes a ton of great songs of his own to choose from .
He was nice enough to let us record this one , and I think all parties thus far are pretty happy ! ''
Eli Young Band achieved their first chart-topper when the song reached the # 1 spot on the Billboard Country Singles chart dated November 19 , 2011 .
