Lindsey Buckingham wrote this as a message to Stevie Nicks .
It describes their breakup , with the most obvious line being , `` Packing up , shacking up is all you want to do . ''
Stevie insisted she never shacked up with anyone when they were going out , and wanted Lindsey to take out the line , but he refused.Stevie Nicks told Q magazine June 2009 : `` It was certainly a message within a song .
And not a very nice one at that . ''
This was the first single from the Rumours album , which became one of the best-selling of all time .
Describing the recording process for this song in Q magazine , drummer Mick Fleetwood said : '' ` Go Your Own Way 's ' rhythm was a tom-tom structure that Lindsey demoed by hitting Kleenex boxes or something .
I never quite got to grips with what he wanted , so the end result was my mutated interpretation .
It became a major part of the song , a completely back-to-front approach that came , I 'm ashamed to say , from capitalising on my own ineptness .
There was some conflict about the ` crackin ' up , shackin ' up ' line , which Stevie felt was unfair , but Lindsey felt strongly about .
It was basically , On your bike , girl ! ''
National Car Rental used this in commercials as part of an advertising campaign based on the title .
Nicks told Mojo magazine -LRB- January 2013 -RRB- : '' ` Dreams ' and ` Go Your Own Way ' are what I call the ` twin songs . '
They 're the same song written by two people about the same relationship . ''
While the Rumours album was being recorded , the marriage of John and Christine McVie -LRB- both of them Mac members -RRB- was also coming to an end .
With two couples breaking up during the sessions , recording could be quite tense .
They were also doing lots of drugs at the sessions , making sure there was plenty of Behind The Music material .
Fleetwood Mac is not known for their guitar solos , but Lindsey Buckingham 's solo on this is one of his most notable .
The live version on The Dance contains a much longer solo .
-LRB- thanks , Don - San Jose , CA -RRB- American singer-songwriter Lissie recorded a version for her 2012 covers EP , Covered Up with Flowers .
Her interpretation peaked at # 54 on the UK singles chart after being used in an advertising campaign for Twinings Tea .
