This power ballad was penned by former Soundgarden and Audioslave vocalist Chris Cornell along with Brian Howes , who has written for Daughtry , Hinder and Puddle of Mudd .
Rob Cavallo , who is best known for his work with Green Day and Kid Rock , produced the track .
This was the first official single to be released from the 2008 American Idol winner 's debut major label album .
David Cook told Entertainment Weekly that he considers this to be an interesting song .
He explained : `` It encompasses almost all of my range .
It 's all over the place .
That 's Chris Cornell at his finest .
It 's got some Zeppelin influence in it ; it 's got some '80s hair-metal influence ; it 's got some grunge influence .
To me it 's like a rock history lesson put into about a four-minute lecture .
It 's fun to play , but it is definitely an intimidating song . ''
This song is about someone having to leave his family to go on the road .
It could refer to a soldier who has to return to Iraq and leave his wife behind and how he misses her .
-LRB- thanks , Krista - Carbondale , PA -RRB- David Cook first came across this song after he did a version of Cornell 's cover of `` Billie Jean on American Idol .
Cook told MTV News what happened next : `` Chris went into the media and said some really , really nice things .
And this song actually got pitched to us , which I take as another huge compliment , the fact that he saw something in me with a song of his .
Just the fact that somebody of his caliber takes the time out of their day not just to mention my name , but to say something nice , it 's kind of out of this world . ''
Veteran producer Rob Cavallo , the man behind hit albums for Green Day , My Chemical Romance and Kid Rock among many others , helmed this tune , along with the rest of the set .
Cook commented on the album 's press release : `` Rob did a great job of tuning in to who I am as a person .
He really made the songs fit me , as opposed to tailoring them to fit someone else 's perception of me . ''
