Clockwork Angels is a concept album about a young man 's quest to follow his dreams , in which he encounters pirates during his travels across an alternative world .
Drummer and lyricist Neil Peart told Rolling Stone how a Daphne Du Maurier story inspired this melancholy song .
`` This Daphne Du Maurier novel Jamaica Inn describes these people called ` The Wreckers ' on the coast of the Cornwall in Britain . ''
he explained .
`` They would not would not only plunder shipwrecks , but they would actually put up a fake light and attract the ships in a storm to crash on their shores so they could loot them .
It 's just a shocking example of inhumanity , and it happens to be a true story .
I wove it all of that into the story of this album . ''
At first Lifeson struggled with the part Lee wrote for him .
Said Raskulinecz to MusicRadar : `` The tune is so big , it 's got such bounce and swing , but it took some effort .
The guitar part in the verse was probably the hardest thing on the record for us to find .
Alex had some difficulty playing the part Geddy had written - it was great , but it did n't feel right to him .
He had to search for the right part , and it took all day with me going , ` Nope , that 's not it ... Nope , that 's not it . '
Finally , he stumbled onto a picking figure , and Geddy and I just stood up and went , ` That 's it !
That 's the part . '
The tune came together real fast after that . ''
Guitarist Alex Lifeson and bassist Geddy Lee switched instruments for the writing of the song , but they went back when it was time to get serious .
Producer Nick Raskulinecz told MusicRadar.com : `` The song did n't exist until we were in the studio -- there was no demo of it .
Geddy was in the writing room , playing guitar , and Alex came in and picked up the bass .
So the song was written with the two of them playing what are n't their main instruments.It 's probably what gives it such a different feel , '' he continued .
`` I tried to get the two of them to switch for the tracking - Alex on bass and Geddy on guitar - but they decided to stick to their designated instruments . ''
