This was released as the second single from the Welsh Post-Hardcore band Funeral for a Friend 's sixth album Conduit .
The song tells of a particular tour test that the band had to endure in their earlier days .
Vocalist Matthew Davies-Kreye explained : '' ` The Distance ' is a song about being in a van , on tour traveling around in foreign countries during the summer and going crazy because the van only had one small window that would open and no air con . ''
Speaking with Noisecreep , vocalist Matthew Davies-Kreye said when he sits down to write lyrics , `` a lot of it is train of though , with a laptop or a piece of paper and I jot things down and a theme develops . ''
However , the only thing that came to mind when he first heard guitarist Kris Coombs-Roberts ' music demo for this song , `` was a tour we spent across mainland Europe .
`` He explained : `` We were invited to open for Linkin Park , which was weird as it is .
We were in this van with no air conditioning and three seats facing each other , with a table in the middle .
You just sit there .
No fu -- ng air conditioning , driving around in solid mainland Europe , where unlike in the U.K. , they get the summer .
The only way to get air into this van was with a tiny , and I mean no bigger than my hand , slit in the window that you can open and close .
We spent the tour like this .
I saw intimate details in my guys in the band than I ever cared to share or thought I would share .
When listening to this song , I put down lyrical content about that spectacle , of five dudes , in the back of a van , in our underwear , scratching our asses off , on this tour .
I am not sure why I thought that would make a good song or a good lyric.It 's not meant to transport you to a van with five sweaty dudes in their underwear , '' he continued , `` but it 's close .
I wanted to capture that feeling ; the video suggests what it 's like , and pays homage to the nomadic , forced to band together nature of what we do .
You have to be a unit , no matter what , in your undies or freezing cold with no heat or if someone is drunk and throwing up all over the place or someone has farted .
It 's meant to capture that in a beautiful and respectful way , not a bitching way .
Bassist Richard Boucher told Alternative Press magazine : `` This was one of those tracks that just seemed to instantly work when we tried it in rehearsal .
Once we heard Matt 's vocals , it became quite clear that this needed to be a single .
It has a strong stoner influence with a modern twist .
It 's simple and upbeat , and was fun to record . ''
