This is the title track from Texan alternative rock band Blue October 's sixth studio album .
The record chronicles the deeply personal events that transpired in singer Justin Furstenfeld 's life after the band 's previous release .
They include an emotionally draining custody battle over his daughter with his ex-wife , and being thrown into a mental hospital after the singer suffered a breakdown on an airplane .
`` These past few years have been hell , '' Furstenfeld told Noisecreep .
`` It 's been such a tough time dealing with my mental breakdown and the custody issues .
All of my friends just disappeared from my life .
It was just me and my songs in the studio for two years straight .
I was only seeing my daughter every two months for four days -- and that 's if she would show up .
For example , I have to go pick her up tomorrow morning in Nebraska and bring her back to Texas for seven days .
But she called me up this morning to say that she did n't want to be around me because of someone I 've been seeing .
I felt like saying , ' I already bought the tickets .
That 's your college fund I 'm using up . '
I feel a little strange being this honest with you , but I know there are a lot of men going through the same thing as I am right now . ''
Furstenfeld 's vocals on this song and the rest of the album are a mixture of fragility and power similar in style to the singing of Peter Gabriel .
The Blue October founder told Noisecreep that the British artist has been an influence on him .
He said : `` I grew up on his solo stuff and I 've always been a huge fan of his voice .
He has a really great way of being dramatic but not too personal .
He 's kind of vague in his delivery .
Sometimes I scream at my radio , ` Dude , just say it !
What 's her name , what 's her number and where does she live ? '
But that 's not Peter -LSB- laughs -RSB- .
I 've always been into songwriters that call people out on their s -- t .
But if you 're going to do that as a writer , you have to be willing to point the finger right back at yourself too .
I definitely have no problem doing that . ''
