This Country-styled story-song represents a rare excursion outside of first-person usage for Swift as she tells a Hollywood cautionary tale about a star who ditches celebrity for a simpler life .
Many fans have speculated that the song is at least partly about Folk-Pop legend Joni Mitchell , who has virtually retired from her recording career .
Taylor sings of the starlet having a `` made up name '' -LRB- Mitchell 's real name is Roberta Joan Anderson -RRB- and `` looking like a sixties ' queen '' , -LRB- her debut album was released in 1968 -RRB- .
In addition at the time of the release of Red , Swift was cited to play Mitchell in her biopic .
The song was produced by Jeff Bhasker , who has also worked with Kanye West , Bruno Mars and Fun .
He told American Songwriter magazine how he brought Swift 's personal song to life .
`` That 's the ultimate thing , to put on the production hat and realize their visions ; framing what they have in an interesting way or contemporary sense , '' he explained .
`` Taylor brought in two songs that she had completely written and played them for me perfectly on the guitar .
She asked me for my thoughts , and I said they were amazing .
Once we tracked her vocals and guitar , we added the musical elements I would usually add and gave it a different flavor than if she would have recorded it in Nashville with a bunch of Nashville musicians . ''
Bhasker added that this was one of his personal favorites from 2012 : `` I was really impressed when she brought that .
That track falls into a little bit more of a Springsteen , Joni Mitchell vein , which I think shows a lot of maturity and what a good songwriter she is .
The lyrics are kind of about her , it has a story , and at the end I think she 's talking about Joni Mitchell rejecting fame , even though she never mentions her .
She was on tour in a hotel room alone feeling a little too famous when she wrote that .
To be able to express your feelings through music , that 's what it 's all about . ''
