This is a track from Chickenfoot III , the second album by American rock supergroup Chickenfoot .
The band comprises ex Van Halen vocalist Sammy Hagar , his former bassist bandmate Michael Anthony , drummer Chad Smith of the Red Hot Chili Peppers and guitarist Joe Satriani .
Satriani commented to Music Radar there are `` some funny guitars on it . ''
He explained : `` Besides the Ibanez JS guitars , there 's a '58 Esquire on the right channel and a '59 Gibson ES-335 on the left .
The JS2400 was my main tracking guitar , and for the solo section that 's one of the JS prototypes with three DiMarzio Choppers .
I used it on quite a few songs .
That prototype has one of the punchiest Strat sounds I 've ever heard .
It gave the solo on Alright , Alright a vintage quality .
Sam calls it the ` Sunshine Of Your Love ` guitar solo . ' ''
This song originated from a jam session when the band was touring .
Satriani told Musicradar.com : `` We were backstage jamming before a show , and I started playing the opening guitar sequence .
Chad and Mike joined in , and then Sam walked in and began singing , ` Alright , alright , alright ! '
We recorded what we had right there , and everybody looked at me and said , ` Joe , you 're going to finish that , right ? '
`` He continued : `` When I was working on it later , I was trying to figure out a way to give it more guts .
It 's a light kind of a chorus , so I wanted to bring it down and give it weight .
I gave it a Stonesy sort of a verse and some funky key changes for the solo . ''
Sammy Hagar discussed the songwriting process for Chickenfoot III during an interview with SoundSpike : `` Mostly Joe and I write the songs , but there are three songs that are band songs .
Those are the ones where we just got in there and played them .
Just made it up on the spot .
The rest of them Joe and I co-wrote before we all got together .
Joe brings the music and I listen to it .
He 's so prolific , when I say , ` OK , Joe .
Let 's get together next week .
You want to bring me a few ideas ? '
He comes with a CD with about 20 ideas .
Not just ideas , almost finished musically .
An intro , verse , a bridge , a chorus and an outro and an ending .
I have to listen to hear what I can relate to .
I write melodies and lyrics and that 's how I write . ''
