Apple penned this love song about her former boyfriend , the writer Jonathan Ames .
Apple started recording The Idler Wheel with the help of her touring drummer , Charley Drayton , in the late 2000s .
She kept her sessions secret , even from her label , and executives at Epic only discovered that Apple had recorded an album in early 2012 , when she presented it to them .
When they asked the singer if she thought the record was really finished she replied that it had to be finished , as the same week she 'd completed it she 'd broken up with Ames .
The song was inspired by the kindness Ames showed to Apple during a trip to Coney Island .
She explained to Interview Magazine : `` I was staying in an apartment in New York and he was just starting up his show -LSB- the HBO series Bored To Death -RSB- .
I was writing this instrumental thing that I 'd started after he had taken me to Coney Island - he takes all of his girlfriends to Coney Island .
I was bitchy about it later on , but at the time he gave me this really wonderful day of simple joy and kindness . ''
It was this song 's unorthodox instrumentation that inspired Apple to record an album .
She explained to Pitchfork : `` On the first night of recording with Charley , we walked by this bottle-making factory .
The door was open and you could hear a machine running .
We both had our recorders with us and we agreed that the sound would be good for the song `` Jonathan '' .
Juan , the guy working the night shift at the factory , let us walk through and record the sound of the machine.That was the moment where I said , ` Oh , we 're not making demos - this is going to be it .
Me and Charley are going to make a record right now . '
And then it just got fun . ''
Apple told Pitchfork why she titled the song after her former boyfriend .
`` I did it because , '' she explained , `` and I 'm saying this in the most affectionate way - he loves attention .
I had come to New York for three months to write and to take a visual perception class at the New School .
I was at the piano and I started writing a musical piece that reminded me of Jonathan because he is so extreme in some ways .
He is just so hilariously quiet on a day-to-day basis , but when he 's on stage or excited with a group of people , he 's just embarrassingly bombastic .
So I was like , ` Hey , I 'm writing this music and it reminds me of you , ' and he was like , ` Does it have my name in it ? '
I thought , ` I 'll do that for him . '
But then we broke up . ''
Apple told Spin magazine that she 'd considered leaving the song off the album .
She spoke to him on the phone and said , `` Listen , it 's just a practical thing , because if I get another boyfriend , I do n't want to have to deal with , ` Who 's this Jonathan guy ? '
I honestly felt like it 's just going to be the fight that breaks up my next relationship , and it 's not worth it .
But then I was like , ` Ah , f -- k it . ' ''
