This song finds the Script addressing the death of vocalist Danny O'Donoghue 's father and both of Mark Sheehan 's parents .
O'Donoghue 's late father Shay , also a musician , died unexpectedly of a stomach aneurysm shortly after The Script formed in 2008 , four months after Sheehan lost his mother .
The guitarist 's dad passed away when he was aged just 14 .
`` That song is all about two grown men sitting down and dealing with things , '' O'Donoghue told The Daily Mail : `` With that song , Mark and I left the realm of songwriters and began to bare our souls .
It 's not a look-at-me song .
It 's us wondering what our parents would think of us now .
They 'd probably tell me I drink and smoke too much , but I think they 'd also be proud . ''
O'Donoghue told The Independent how the pair went to opposite sides of the room they were in and started writing alternate verses : `` It was an incredibly hard song to write , '' he said .
`` As soon as I started writing the lyrics , I started crying .
We 're men , we 're 30 years old , and there 's not a lot of people out there that would be open enough to say it in the same way as The Script .
That song was more important for Mark than it was for me because I 'm very open about my emotions , but he 's not at all , so to hear him sum up in one verse what I 've been waiting for him to say to me was an incredible moment .
That really is the power of music . ''
Sheehan told The Sun about the writing of the song : `` We 're quite happy lads in real life but we just vent everything in our music , '' he said .
`` We wear our hearts on our sleeves and put everything into our music . '' ''
` If You Could See Me Now ' is the first time we 've rinsed ourselves that deeply , '' he continued .
`` There 's been a lot bottled up and we felt there was a hole in the album and we were n't being honest enough until this song .
We really hit the whiskies one night , that was the catalyst .
We were very emotional and wrote a song about this -- Danny one end of the room , me at another .
It was a tough one to write and I did n't want anyone to listen to it at first , if I 'm honest .
But that 's what we 're in music for -- that honest emotion .
I 'm so proud of that song . ''
