Johnson is an enthusiastic eco-warrior and he explained to the Sun newspaper January 25 , 2008 how this song reflected his concerns : '' ` Sleep Through The Static ' is about how we have the ability to turn off the war whenever we please .
Or you can use a plastic bag to bring home all your groceries .
You throw it in the waste and then you do n't see what happens but it sits there for 2,000 years .
A lot of things are out of sight , out of mind for us and it 's easier to ` sleep through the static ' . ''
The album sold 375,000 copies in the US in it 's debut week , more than any other Johnson album in it 's first 7 days .
37 % of the album 's total , 139,000 units , were digital downloads , making it the biggest sales week for a digital set .
The previous record holder was Kanye West 's Graduation , which moved 133,000 digital albums in its first seven days in 2007 .
It also topped the UK album charts in its debut week , a rather swifter move to the top than Johnson 's previous UK chart topper , his 2005 album In Between Dreams , which took 44 weeks to reach # in March 2006 .
Johnson told jambase.com about the inspiration for this song : `` That whole song actually came pretty easy .
It was a stream of consciousness kinda thing .
I saw a sticker on a car and it said , ` Support Our Troops . '
There was another sticker next to it about Jesus .
I thought to myself , ` What would Jesus think if he saw this ? '
I was trying to see it objectively and not too be cynical about it .
He was human and lived here on Earth at some point .
What would he think about a bumper sticker with his name on it and right next to ` Support Our Troops ' ? '
Now that got me thinking .
There is nothing wrong with supporting our troops , but when supporting our troops becomes synonymous with supporting this war . .
I have a friend who had a sticker that said , ` Support Our Troops .
Bring Them Home , ' and somebody took it off their car .
You get labeled as being unpatriotic if you think the troops should come home .
I started thinking one of Jesus ' famous lines , ` Love your enemy . '
It would be interesting if Jesus could tell us what he really thinks .
So I had the first line , ` C'mon Jesus / Tell us what you really think / That 's no way to treat an enemy . '
From there the whole song came out , even though that first line did n't make it into the song . ''
