East Londoner Professor Green , or Stephen Paul Manderson as he 's known to his family , has been a well known name in the underground Hip Hop scene for a number of years .
In 2007 , he spent 13 months hosting part of a radio show on BBC Radio 1 , called In New DJs We Trust .
A couple of years later , Manderson claimed his status as the world 's second best MC in the rap battle championship US Mix Show Power Summit in the Bahamas .
This song is his first single release after signing with Virgin Records .
Manderson told the story of the song to Orange Music Store : `` It all started about a year ago , the day before I went out to the Bahamas -LSB- for the US Mix Show Power Summit -RSB- .
I contacted a guy on Facebook called Jax who 's part of the duo Thundacatz who produced the track .
I asked if he was interested in doing any work and he said , ` Yeah , I have the perfect beat for you . '
He sent it over and it was a no-brainer .
I had the sample on my iPod when I was in the hotel room , everyone else was sleeping and I was walking around the room trying to work out the chorus .
But sometimes it pretty much writes itself .
The sunshine helped , I do n't usually write such happy music , but yes , that 's definitely why I 'm on fire . ''
The song is constructed around a sample from Australian rock band INXS 's 1988 hit single `` Need You Tonight '' and features vocals from English singer-songwriter Ed Drewett .
Manderson told the NME : `` I 'm not as cool as Michael Hutchence so I wrote a self depreciating version . ''
Manderson admitted to The Sun in a March 2012 interview that for a long time he found it depressing performing the track live on stage .
He said : `` Touring is hard work , singing the same stuff every night .
There was a time when performing ' I Need You Tonight ' made me want to kill myself .
I love that song but there were times on stage when as soon as I heard the intro it made me contemplate self-harm .
`` Manderson continued : `` Every hit on the guitar was like a needle in my eye .
That song broke me and is still an anthem for me but , man , it was tough .
Thankfully , I can hear it again now and it 's no longer painful . ''
