Soundgarden 's first new song in 15 years is a midtempo track that was written by the band specifically for the soundtrack to Marvel 's The Avengers film .
Lyrically , the track has a solar theme like their best known tune , `` Black Hole Sun . ''
The group 's last album was released in 1996 , although they officially reunited in 2010 and had started touring in the summer of 2011 .
The song was debuted via Seattle rock station KISW on April 4 , 2012 .
This was the first Soundgarden track to be written for a movie , though Cornell had previously contributed tracks to films such as Mission Impossible II -LRB- `` Mission '' -RRB- , Casino Royale -LRB- `` You Know My Name '' -RRB- and Machine Gun Preacher -LRB- `` The Keeper '' -RRB- .
Speaking with The Hollywood Reporter , Cornell said the song did not come easily .
`` This song came arduously , '' he said .
`` It 's different , because it has to be a Soundgarden song .
It has to resonate with every band member .
Writing a song for the Avengers film , it has to be lyrically not specific to the movie or the story , but it has to work with it .
It was n't so easy .
But it turned out absolutely a Soundgarden song . ''
During an interview with KROQ 's Kevin & Bean at the time of the song 's debut , frontman Chris Cornell recalled the recording of the track : `` We 've been working on a new album for a while and it 's taken a while because we 've ended up touring a few times in the middle of writing it and recording it , '' he said .
`` We 're pretty much done with that .
We 're at the mixing stage of it and then this idea came up that we 'd contribute a song for the Avengers film and so it 's actually the newest song that we have ... let 's take a song we 've been working on for the album ... but none of them were really right , which happens sometimes , so we thought , let 's do another one .
That 's the beauty of it . ''
The song was made available as a free download on iTunes beginning April 17 , 2012 , as part of the promotion of the The Avengers movie .
Speaking with Digital Spy , bassist Ben Shepherd discussed the difficulties of recording material for a different audience .
He said : `` I personally never think about what studios or people like that want , but they said it could n't be as extremely hardcore as some Soundgarden material .
We did n't want to scare off families , so it had to be toned down a little . ''
`` But it was fine , '' he added .
`` The lyrics are still beautiful , powerful and dark .
We 're probably the darkest band to ever be associated with Disney .
It sounds like Soundgarden to me . ''
