Co-frontman Scott McMicken explained this song 's meaning to Express Night Out : `` It definitely is very literal minded and I think of all the songs I 've ever written it 's the most literal .
The event that led to the song , as well as the writing of the song itself , was one of those things that came to me because it was so literal and because I had had such a profound experience with those two people that the writing of the song was so easy - it was all right there on the table .
I was having a bad night and I wanted to go find my friend , John , and I found him at a bar with another friend of ours , Jackie , and I was having a tough time on account of a break-up-type scenario .
Though my tough time was n't directly tied to the break-up situation , it was directly tied to all the negative emotions that come with it : self-doubt , lack of control , lack of confidence.So anyway , I found them and we were all in the same boat - John and Jackie were coming from exactly the same spot I was and I just stumbled into this little club all of a sudden .
The three of us became a club , we had this thing in common , so we just sat around this table at this bar up the street from here and talked and it was just amazing .
The difference between how I felt walking into there from how I felt walking out was startling and was very hopeful to me , considering the state I had been in for so long leading up to that and I felt it was my first step out of the fog and it actually was .
It was a real overt moment in time where things just got better , so I just went home and -LSB- wrote -RSB- .
Initially I wrote that song and I thought we were going to be getting together a lot , very self consciously as this lonely hearts club kind of thing .
Of course we hung out a lot more but after that night it was n't as self-conscious .
So I made that chorus this really sing-songy thing for us .
It 's just kind of a story about me and my two friends .
They were both so psyched to come in and sing in a studio and have headphones on - it 's not something they get to do every day .
To me the whole thing comes full circle with that to have had that experience , the impact it had on me.When you 're struggling it 's hard to write music that is n't this dark , heavy stuff , which I do n't want as part of my songwriting .
I always try to pursue something more hopeful and use songwriting as a positive device , not just a dredge .
Because that experience inspired me to write that song , it inspired me to write more .
It let a little sunlight in the windows and then I started writing a lot more songs after that , so to have them come in and sing on it just felt very nice . ''
