Manchester-born , Glasgow-raised Yasmin -LRB- real name Yasmin Shahmir -RRB- is a DJ and singer-songwriter who started her music career aged 19 as a hip-hop DJ running her own club night , Bad Intentions , in London .
She was discovered DJing by Pharell Williams and subsequently toured alongside N * E * R * D , Will.i.am , Taio Cruz and Eve .
In April 2010 the British-Iranian signed to an imprint of Ministry of Sound Recordings and by the end of the year she 'd achieved a commercial breakthrough when she wrote and sang the chorus on Devlin 's hit single , `` Runaway . ''
Yasmin told The Daily Record how she ditched her record company video after deciding it did n't represent her properly .
She said : `` We got a video treatment sent to the label at Ministry of Sound and decided on the one that seemed to be right .
The shoot was all day long , from 7am until midnight , and there was a big crew with lots of extras .
As soon as we shot it I had to fly out to LA to work and they sent it out for my approval but when I saw it I thought it was really not me .
It did n't represent me and I was cringing .
I could n't put it out there but I was in LA for ten days and could n't do anything fast.While I was there I called around a few people and when I got back on Thursday they asked me to do another edit of the video but it was still not me .
On the Friday I had to phone everyone I knew and arrange to shoot a second video which I needed to present on the Monday morning .
I shot the new video all day Saturday and in the evening and the editor had to edit it during the night and all day Sunday .
He gave me it on hard drive and I had to run to my label for 9am on Monday and then deliver it to the TV stations .
`` Yasmin added that she 'd met some good videographers and producers from her previous work with Devlin on Runaway and she managed to refilm the clip within a # 1000 budget .
Said the singer : `` I paid for it all myself as the budget had been used up on the official video and luckily lots of people gave me reduced rates .
I got my friend , the videographer Luke Monaghan - he has done behind the scenes stuff for Professor Green and Emil Nava , who directed the Devlin video Runaway and Jessie J 's Do It Like a Dude - to help as well as a friend who gave me the use of a house.The official video saw me walking down streets at night and ended up in a house party situation .
The setting and the sort of mood of everything was like ` Look at this .
It 's so trendy ' .
I 'm quite a chilled out person and it was not a ` look at me , so trendy song ' .
It was really personal to me and about my journey .
It was a bit more intimate and I wanted people to get to know me .
I did n't even recognise me in the original but in the video I did I 'm the only person you get to see .
You get to know me . ''
This is Yasmin 's debut single under her own name , which was produced by drum 'n' bass legend Shy FX and released on 30 January 2011 .
The song finds the British-Iranian DJ doubting her choices before finding confidence that she did it all by herself .
`` And if I fail , at least I know I did it on my own , '' she sings .
