This is a track from the soundtrack for the movie Country Strong .
The song was performed by the film 's star , Gwyneth Paltrow , and written by Hillary Lindsey , Troy Verges , Tom Douglas and Bob DiPiero .
Troy Verges and Hillary Lindsey discussed the writing of the song in an interview with The Boot : Troy Verges : It was written for the film ; we read the script and wrote it for the story.Hillary Lindsey : In the script , it says , `` Kelly -LRB- who is played by Gwyneth -RRB- enters the stage to sing her grand finale performance of ` Coming Home . '' '
So the title was already give to us .
Tom , Troy and I read the script , and we had to incorporate what ` coming home ' meant to her character in lots of different ways .
It 's metaphorical for a lot of other things that were going on in her life.Troy : Tom actually walked in with the first few lines of the verse , because he 's just a great lyricist .
We took that seed and grew it from there .
Her character has the prodigal son thing going on in a way .
She 's a really diverse character .
There 's lots of coming home angles for her , and we tried to hit all of them.Hillary : She 's very strong and she 's very put together , but in the same breath she 's very tormented and very fragile and falling apart.Troy : We did n't want to make it so tied up to her character that it felt like it was manufactured.Hillary : She 's supposed to be an artist , so it would be something personal to her that she would sing but it would n't be so specific.Troy : It only took a few hours of just starting it and having the first draft of it done , and we were pretty excited about it .
We did tons of rewrites on it after that .
We tried putting a bridge in , then took it out , to get it just right for the filmmakers.Hillary : We were rewriting because we 'd submit it to Randall Poster , who was the music supervisor for the film , and he would come back with feedback .
It was really great .
We were n't rewriting just shooting in the dark .
We were rewriting with direction.Troy : We started it before Christmas and then we came back , so it was about a month of five meet ups to write it.Hillary : It was funny when we saw it , but I remember being surprised that this was the song Gwyneth and Leighton Meester were fighting over .
It was a little weird .
It made me feel good .
But it was like , `` When everybody leaves the theater , they better really like that song ! ''
It was a little bit of pressure.Troy : I thought that was cool , because that happens .
People fight over songs all the time , and I 've never seen it in a movie like that .
And then being nominated for an Oscar was n't even in the realm of possibility .
I watched the Oscars growing up , but I never thought I 'd be nominated for one .
The song was nominated for Best Original Song at the 2011 Academy Awards and was performed on the Oscars broadcast by Paltrow .
