This moody cut is the second single from American Country music artist Jake Owen 's third album Barefoot Blue Jean Night .
Shane McAnally , J.T. Harding and Catt Gravitt wrote the song .
Illinois native Catt Gravitt has written songs for the likes of Martina McBride , Kenny Rogers , Rascal Flatts , Trace Adkins , and Craig Morgan whilst singer-songwriters Harding and McAnally 's previous collaborations include Kenny Chesney 's hit single `` Somewhere With You . ''
Owen told The Boot he was attracted to this song as he could relate to its meaning .
He explained : `` It 's a song about being in an odd relationship with someone where it 's not even really a relationship , you really do n't even have that much in common with that person except for sexually .
You use each other for convenience .
I 've been there .
A lot of people have been there -- it 's called a ` booty call ' !
-LSB- laughs -RSB- '' Shane McAnally came up with the original idea for the song after reading a book titled Running With Scissors , which he thought could be a metaphor for a toxic relationship .
The three songwriters wrote the lyric `` you 've got me running with scissors down the hall , and I know it could kill me if I fall , '' but when Owen put his final vocal on the track , he felt uncomfortable as he did n't believe that line was true to who he was .
So the trio tried to pen something that cleared up the metaphor and made it a little more believable and came up with , `` you 've got me out on the edge every time you call , and I know it would kill me if I fall . ''
McNally commented to The Boot : `` I think Jake made the right choice .
He sings it with such conviction that the line is even more powerful than before .
It 's just ironic , that the line we based the whole song on , is the line that got ` cut . '
No pun intended .
`` He added : `` Sometimes , you do have to lose a great or overly clever line in the best interest of the song .
The song is king .
We just try not to get in the way of the story .
Luckily , Jake 's instincts saved us from overwriting a story that was simple and needed to stay that way . ''
Harding told The Boot how Owen ended up cutting the song : `` Around Nashville some people thought a girl should sing this song , but I knew if a dude sang it , it would be huge because it 's a bit vulnerable .
Shane was writing songs with Jake , and they talked about ` Alone With You ' and Jake decided to cut it .
I could n't be happier .
Jake and his producers Joey Moi and Rodney Clawson knocked it out of the park . ''
Owen told Billboard magazine that he saw this cut as a perfect complement to his previous single .
`` We felt like it was a really good transition at the time , '' he said .
`` After we had such a big summertime song with ` Barefoot Blue Jean Night , ' it was a good song to lead into the winter months , where everybody holes up in a house and gets cold and lonely . ''
The song finds Owen confronting a woman who only flirts with him when she 's drinking .
He explained to The Boot why he chose it as his follow-up to his hit single `` Barefoot Blue Jean Night : '' `` People just gravitate towards it , like the line in there about ` you kiss me when you 're drunk . '
The label wanted ` The One That Got Away ' to be my single , and I wrote it , and obviously as a songwriter you want a song to be a single , you make a good amount of money .
But I just knew , there are too many people coming to me to tell me they love that song .
So I just told the label , ` Y' all are gon na think I 'm crazy , but let 's change it . '
There 's like a lot of vulnerability in that song . ''
The song is one that you would n't normally hear a guy sing .
Owen admitted to The Boot that the lyric , `` do n't leave me here like this , do n't tease me and my emotions and then leave , '' is `` something that would come from a girl , but coming from a guy 's perspective it 's pretty vulnerable . ''
He continued : '' I think guys still feel the same way .
There 's going to be some times where the guy does n't want her to go , he 's more into it than she is or vice versa . ''
JT Harding told The Boot the story of the song : `` The three of us got together and Shane started playing the guitar intro just like you hear it now on the radio .
It sounded so cool and yet sad at the same time .
I started singing words off the top of my head , and lyrics literally gushed out about a romantic mess I had gotten myself into .
Shane jumped right in with great words about his own past messes .
-LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
After the song was finished , Gravitt commented that she felt they `` were tiptoeing around the sexiness of the song 's situation . ''
Harding recalled : `` She literally stood up and loudly said , ` I 'm a woman !
I want to feel this ! '
More detailed lyrics emerged like , ` Do n't put your hand up my shirt and tell me it 's OK . ' ''
This was the second # 1 Country song of Owen 's career , following `` Barefoot Blue Jean Night . ''
