This track from Los Angeles indie noise pop band Dum Dum Girls second album Only In Dreams features frontwoman Dee-Dee singing about fraught desires .
She told CMU : `` I wo n't lie ; it 's heart on sleeve .
Things can be so awful but at least they can also be bliss .
Hope you listen to the song and feel something . ''
Dee Dee 's mother died during the course of a year during the writing and recording of Only in Dreams .
This song was written about her mom 's final few days and the way Dee Dee disengaged emotionally .
She explained to Spinner : `` I think it 's a common reaction that people , myself included , want to disengage when something 's that overwhelming .
It 's why people go out and get wasted when they have bad news .
I was on a serious attempt to not deal with what was going on and trying to stay as out of it as possible , because it was just an overwhelming situation , coming in and out of being forced to realize what was going on .
That 's basically what ` coming down ' is in reference to . ''
This was released as the first song from the album .
Dee Dee explained why they chose to lead with this track to Spinner : It 's a really long song , and because it was quite a big shift for us , I think Sub Pop just wanted to highlight this song .
I was happy that they did , and I think the response has been pretty positive .
I would n't say it 's not indicative of the record as a whole .
I think it has a good place on it and makes sense on it , but it 's definitely a standout , stylistically and sonically , from the others . ''
The staff of Spinner selected this as their best song of 2011 .
They said : `` While singing about being lost in a self-medicated haze after the death of her mother , frontwoman Dee Dee summoned the courage to show off her vocal power and ravaged heart .
That stunning vulnerability let Dum Dum Girls transcend the confines of the garage-pop genre and lay claim to being one of the best rock acts around , as well as our pick for best track of the year . ''
