This is the opening track from Chicago rapper Kanye West 's fifth studio album , My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy .
The song finds West musing on the relentless pursuit of hedonistic and lecherous pleasures , rhyming , `` The plan was to drink until the pain was over , but what 's worse , the pain or the hangover ? ''
This contains samples of `` In High Places '' by English multi-instrumentalist composer Mike Oldfield .
Harlem native Teyana Taylor also appears on this song .
She is a singer , choreographer and actress who also happens to be the niece of hip hop super producer Pharrell Williams .
The song is introduced by a narrative by New York MC Nicky Minaj , in which she reworks in an English accent a poem by Roald Dahl that itself revisits the classic fairy tale Cinderella .
Justin Vernon of Bon Iver features on the song .
The indie-folk singer also appears on the Dark Twisted Fantasy tracks , `` Lost In The World '' and `` Monster . ''
During a 2013 interview with the New York Times , West was asked about his decision to interrupt Taylor Swift during the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards .
He replied that he had `` no regrets , '' adding that he felt peer pressured to apologize .
He then explained that My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy was `` my long , backhanded apology .
You know how people give a backhanded compliment ?
It was a backhanded apology .
It was like , all these raps , all these sonic acrobatics .
I was like : ` Let me show you guys what I can do , and please accept me back .
You want to have me on your shelves . ' ''
West went on to admit that only about 80 percent of Dark Fantasy was what he wanted to give , and the remaining 20 percent was fulfilling a perception .
`` I do n't have some type of romantic relationship with the public , '' he said .
`` I 'm like , the anti-celebrity , and my music comes from a place of being anti .
That was the album where I gave people what they wanted .
I do n't think that at that point , with my relationship with the public and with skeptical buyers , that I could 've done ` Black Skinhead . ' ''
