With a catchy synthesizer sound and explosive chorus , this song was one of the most memorable hits of the '80s .
In our interview with Corey Hart , he told us the story behind the song : `` In the early Spring of ' 83 , I was a starry-eyed 19 year old kid from Montreal recording in a studio near Manchester , England .
By late May , approaching my 20th Birthday , I finally held in my hands a cassette which contained the finished recordings of eleven original songs that would comprise my First Offense album debut.However , there was one more song to come .
Track twelve , ` Sunglasses At Night . '
It was not yet written but the idea had already begun a subterranean journey through my creative subconscious .
It rained almost every day I was in the UK for those sessions .
I had a pair of Ray Ban sunglasses with me but I never had the chance to use them.Later that summer my album was delivered to Aquarius-Capitol Records .
Everyone seemed very pleased with the results .
I was kinda like a writing magnet in those days so the song ideas kept flowing even though we were done with the recording .
I started messing around with a melodic line and phrase called ` My Cigarette Got Wet . '
It is an ironic lyric because I have never smoked in my life .
It was the nascent embryo of ` Sunglasses ' although I did n't realize it .
I actually recorded a demo for ` Wet ' which had many musical elements of ` Sunglasses ' but I was n't really sold on the song.One night I went back to the ` Wet ' demo and sang out the lines ' I Wear My Sunglasses At Night ' over the melody .
Wow .
Just like that the song was born .
It now spirited a cooler cadence from the new lyric that was missing before , plus I changed a few chord progressions .
I wanted to add it to my album on the spot .
Impossible , I thought , we 'd already spent the full recording budget .
But I will call the label first thing in the morning anyway and plead my case.To their credit and intuition , Aquarius Records sent me back to England .
They trusted me when I told them , ' I think this one is really good . '
My Producers in London , Phil Chapman and Jon Astley , brought out the best in the song .
They brilliantly produced the track highlighting the hip sounds and styles exploding out of the UK music scene during that prolific period in the early '80s .
When it was released in November 1983 I remember hearing the song for the first time on CHOM-FM in Montreal , but I only caught 30 seconds before I blew out my car speakers because I had cranked the volume up to overload!I think I first knew I had a hit on my hands when I landed in the Detroit airport en route to my first US tour as opening act for Rick Springfield in June 1984 .
I was mobbed at the airport by frenzied fans .
We needed security to get me through the terminal to catch the connecting flight .
It was a surreal experience .
The song climbed slowly but steadily up the Billboard charts into the Top Ten that summer as I crisscrossed the US on a massive radio-concert promo tour . ''
MTV , which launched in 1981 , was a cultural force by 1984 , which is when they put this video in hot rotation .
Corey Hart told us : `` I believe the video played a key role in establishing a strong image for me that certainly impacted the song 's success .
Music videos at that time were a new , exciting and innovative genre for record promotion .
Within a few weeks of heavy MTV play your face and song would be known from coast to coast . ''
At the request of his record label , Corey Hart recorded a new version of this song in 2002 .
In 2010 , Miller Lite used this in one of their `` Man Up '' commercials with a guy committing the unmanly act of wearing sunglasses in a bar .
When they play this song , he tries to deny that he likes it , but then we see him singing along with it .
While `` Sunglasses At Night '' is his best known song in America , Corey Hart is far from a one-hit-wonder , with 9 US Top-40 hits from 1984-1990 .
His biggest chart hit came on his second album when `` Never Surrender '' hit # 3 in the US .
In his native Canada , `` Sunglasses '' was just a minor hit , reaching # 24 .
His three Canadian chart-toppers are `` Never Surrender , '' `` Everything in My Heart '' and `` Ca n't Help Falling in Love . ''
Is Corey Hart sick of this song ?
Not a bit .
In 2012 he told us : `` Last week I was on a crowded rental shuttle bus at Miami Airport on my way to pick up our car .
The radio was blaring out ` China Girl ' by David Bowie .
As the tune faded out it segued into the next song .
I heard the hypnotic intro riff of ` Sunglasses At Night ' fill the air .
Some folks started to tap their feet .
I glanced over at my 13 year old daughter .
We both had big smiles on our faces .
Yeah man , it still feels super cool to hear it - even after all these years . ''
In 2001 , Tiga & Zyntherius recorded an 8-minute dance version of this song .
The 2008 Miley Cyrus hit `` See You Again '' sampled this song .
