John and Edward are an Irish duo , popularly known as Jedward , comprising of identical twin brothers John and Edward Grimes .
Their unique performances and distinctive blonde quaffed hair on the 2009 series of X-Factor bought them to the attention of the UK public .
After they were eliminated from the competition , the twins signed a # 90,000 one album contract with Sony BMG .
This mashup of the Queen and David Bowie hit `` Under Pressure '' and Vanilla Ice song `` Ice Ice Baby '' was released as their debut single .
Vanilla Ice himself is featured on the track .
He praised their version of his song to ITN : `` I think they 're great .
I did n't know anything about them until a couple of weeks ago , but YouTube is a great thing .
I got the invite to come over here .
The song is great and it is a compliment to me . ''
John and Edward first performed this song on the Freddie Mercury/Queen week of X-Factor on November 14 , 2009 .
They later performed the song during the National Television Awards on January 20 , 2010 , with Vanilla Ice joining them on stage in the second half of their performance .
Jedward explained their songwriting process to CMU : `` We go into the studio and we never know what 's going to happen , it 's like an experiment .
We hear a beat , and we get on a vibe for a song , and start writing and sharing ideas !
You know , it 's really a great feeling to be in the studio , we are loving the music right now and working with all different producers is really exciting , and that adds loads of different flavours to an album , like sweets , and each track is unique !
We have to be in the zone .
When we are in the studio we have to think like we are performing to thousands of people to get the energy and life in our vocals !
We have a huge input and are always looking for something different , and they are the types of songs we as artists get excited about !
We always want every track on the album to be a potential single and Jepic and Jeadly , just like Jedward -LRB- John and Edward together !
Name given by our fans ! -RRB- . ''
