Karma is the belief that your actions effect your future lives .
Good deeds will have a positive effect while bad deeds bring negative consequences .
The concept of Karma is popular in the Hindu and Buddhist religions .
Lennon 's idea of `` Instant Karma '' refers to a more immediate concept of accountability for your actions .
Basically , what comes around , goes around .
A good indication of Lennon 's mindset at the time and inspiration for this song can be seen in the statement he and Yoko released on December 31 , 1969 , declaring 1970 `` Year 1 AP -LRB- After Peace -RRB- . ''
The statement read : `` We believe that the last decade was the end of the old machine crumbling to pieces .
And we think we can get it together , with your help .
We have great hopes for the new year . ''
According to Philip Norman 's book John Lennon : The Life , the chorus was made up of Mal Evans , Yoko , and a small group of strangers Lennon rounded up from a West End pub called Hatchetts .
Alan White played drums on this song .
White was a member of the band Yes , and also worked with George Harrison , Joe Cocker , Ginger Baker and The Ventures .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- In 1993 , `` Instant Karma '' was used in a Nike commercial directed by David Fincher .
Predictably , many of Lennon 's fans did not appreciate his music being used to support a major corporation , and Yoko Ono took some heat for allowing the song 's use .
Yoko explained her decision in an interview with Option , where she said : `` Look , even if we have something against big business , big business is going to thrive .
It 's going to be there .
The way I see it is : I 've got an access there for millions of people to hear ` Instant Karma ' ; and I got $ 800,000 , which went to the United Negro College Fund .
That 's what I got for that song .
You have a problem with that ?
What 's the alternative ?
Big business is going to be there no matter what we do .
So if it 's going to be there , why do n't we use it for positive things .
To say this is wrong is the same kind of snobbery as , like , an avant-garde composer saying , ` Ah , we should not do that commercial deal ; it 's bad . '
I do n't buy that .
I mean , what is sell-out ?
What does sell-out mean ? ''
The title of the Stephen King novel The Shining , which was later made into a film starring Jack Nicholson , was inspired by the refrain in this song : `` We all shine on . ''
Instant Karma is also the title of Mark Swartz ' 2002 novel .
John Lennon wrote and recorded this song in one day , which was either January 26 or 27 , 1970 , depending on the source .
It was unusual in the Beatles era for a song to be written and put into tape the same day .
Lennon told Rolling Stone in January 1971 about the recording of this song and its quick turn around : `` I wrote it in the morning on the piano .
I went to the office and sang it many times .
So I said ` Hell , let 's do it , ' and we booked the studio , and Phil came in , and said , ` How do you want it ? '
I said , ` You know , 1950 's . '
He said , ` right , ' and boom , I did it in about three goes or something like that .
I went in and he played it back and there it was .
The only argument was that I said a bit more bass , that 's all ; and off we went . ''
George Harrison played guitar on this and Billy Preston played piano on this track .
Preston helped out The Beatles with their Let It Be Album .
In 2007 U2 , Christina Aguilera , R.E.M. and Black Eyed Peas all contributed to an album of John Lennon cover songs called Instant Karma .
This was the first of many recordings by members of the Beatles that Phil Spector produced in 1970 .
He helmed three albums in the same year for them , which were Let It Be for The Beatles , All Things Must Pass for George Harrison and Plastic Ono Band for John Lennon .
According to the BBC book The Record Producers , John Lennon wanted Spector to produce a single before letting him take on Let It Be .
`` Instant Karma '' proved that Spector could work with sparse instrumentation and still produce a hit , and it won over Lennon .
In their 2009 `` Blue Sky '' TV commercial , Chase bank used a version of this song sung by Peter Murphy .
While the `` We all shine on '' chorus is a sensible sentiment for a bank looking to attract new customers , invoking `` Karma '' at a time when large banks like Chase helped trigger a financial meltdown was a questionable call .
Also puzzling was the choice of Murphy , who is the former lead singer of the Goth band Bauhaus .
