Frontman Dave Mustaine told Artistdirect.com that he wrote this song for his wife .
He explained : `` My wife said , ` You 've never written a song for me . '
I was like , ` Yeah , I did . '
She responded , ` No you did n't ! '
I told her , ' I did .
You just do n't like Megadeth , so you do n't know -LSB- Laughs -RSB- . '
She likes listening to Country music and more of the toned-down kind of stuff .
I said , ` Okay , I 'll do a new one . '
I wrote this song for her .
The second half is different .
It 's like any other Megadeth song that has two halves .
There 's a ' ... ' in the middle of that song for a reason .
It 's like ` Holy Wars ... The Punishment Is Due . '
Everyone calls that song , ` Holy Wars , ' but it 's really ` Holy Wars ... The Punishment Due . '
It 's funny when people just scream , ` Holy Wars ! '
-LSB- For -RSB- the second part of ` The Hardest Part of Letting Go ... Sealed with a Kiss ' I was reading Edgar Allan Poe 's collection of short stories .
I like Poe .
I think that he 's got some really incredible climaxes in his stories .
One of my favorite writers growing up was Aesop because at the end of every story , no matter how scary it was , there was a moral .
Some of those stories are really scary when you 're just a little kid !
That saying -- What 's the moral to the story -- came up because of that .
What 's the punch line ?
I loved the way that Aesop did that , so much so , that I did that at the very end of a song called ` Bad Omen ' The song was really intense but , at the end , it turned around .
It said that if you participate in this Satanic orgy going on , you 're mind will be helpless and no one will be able to save you .
There are a lot of different things that I write about , and ` Sealed with a Kiss ' is the part from the Poe story . ''
Artist Direct asked Mustaine what his wife thought of the song .
He replied : `` I loved that song so much .
When I heard it , I was so happy that I 'd finally written a song like this .
I was like , ` Oh my God , how did I do this ? '
I 'd been trying so hard to write an emotional song like this , and the closest I ever came to it was ` In My Darkest Hour ' or ' a Tout Le Monde . '
Those two are really good songs , but they 're nothing like this one .
When I would listen to it , I was just so content !
Then I played it for my wife , and I knew she did n't like it .
I 've been with her forever , and I knew she did n't like it .
She did n't like the part where I said I was going to bury the person in the wall .
That was a little bit of a misstep on my part -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
I told her , ` That part 's not about you ; the first half is about you ! '
It 's like any of the other songs that I 've written that have two parts .
We could go back to ` Holy Wars ... The Punishment Due . '
The first part of it is about my antics -- I got myself into trouble over in Antrim in Northern Island .
The second half is about The Punisher comic book . ''
