The song 's title refers to the year the Berlin Wall was built .
A barrier constructed by the German Democratic Republic , it completely cut off the American , British , and French occupied West Berlin from the communist occupied East Berlin .
King told the Denver Westword how the pair collaborated on this song .
He explained : `` I had this verse and pre-chorus idea .
It was almost more of melodies .
I had the bridge to that pre-chorus - the `` I want to feel your love right now '' - and that was kind of all I had of the song when I showed it to him .
We did n't know the direction quite yet or where we wanted to take it.But I was coming from a place of newness in my life and meeting new people and feeling new things and discovering who I am again as a single person .
So that was the first line that I had .
I had this verse with this melody , and I kind handed that over .
I was like , ` You know what ?
Why do n't you see what you can do with some lyrics on this .
` And Isaac kind of ran with it a bit .
We were in New Orleans , and he 'd go off to the coffee shop and start writing about whatever and he 'd come back , we 'd hash through it , and I 'd hear him out .
Once he started playing it , I knew he was on to something pretty great , the first line , I could tell .
You can usually tell immediately if something 's working or not .
And it was , and it stuck . ''
This song came out of a songwriting trip that singer Isaac Slade and guitarist Joe King took to New Orleans after the break-up of the latter 's marriage .
King explained to interviewer Mike Ragogna : `` We wrote that song about The Berlin Wall and the division it represented in regards to one unified city becoming two cities still under the covering of a country .
They 're both German , but in a sense , they were as far from each other as they could possibly be .
I think that 's how our relationships can be sometimes .
Not to sound cliché , but we all as people build these walls that do n't really come down until someone comes into our lives , tears them down , and says , ` Enough ! ' ''
-LRB- Source The Huffington Post -RRB- .
King explained to Denver Westword why this is one of his favorite tracks on Scars & Stories production-wise : `` I love the arrangement .
I played this little sounder organ , this old-school , push-button organ that 's super grainy .
You can hear it in the background .
There 's elements to the song that we 've never done as a band .
There 's sounds that I 'm so proud of , sonically .
It just feels like that 's one of my best songs .
I do n't know if it 's the best song I 've ever written , but I 'm proud of a lot of elements of that song . ''
