This is the opening track and title song from George Strait 's 38th studio album .
In our interview with Jim Lauderdale , he explained that this song makes a statement about Country music , and about how he 'd like to hear a lot more twang on the radio .
Regarding the shift in Country music to a more slick , polished style , Lauderdale said : `` It used to disappoint me , but it started many years ago , and so I 've grown used to the fact that all genres of music change , and whereas I do have a real soft spot for traditional country and bluegrass , it 's moved on .
Just like rock and roll has changed , you know , today 's rock is n't the same as it was 30 or 40 years ago.Some of my friends say all their of country went away in 1975 .
But there 's been a lot of great stuff since .
So I do n't really subscribe to that .
But , you know , Country has been real influenced in the last 45 years by rock and roll .
Stylistically it 's kind of merged .
But that 's the nature of music . ''
On the cover of the CD Strait sits playfully in the driver 's seat of a classic American Cadillac , strumming a toy guitar .
The veteran Country singer said of the photo shoot in the album 's press release : `` When I got into that old Caddy , there was a little guitar lying in the front seat .
I picked it up and started clowning around with it , and the photographer kept shooting .
It 's not a staged shot , by any means .
When I started going through the pictures , I saw this shot and thought it fit the feel of Twang I was looking for . ''
Long-time Strait favorite Jim Lauderdale co-wrote this honky-tonker about playing music on a juke box with Jimmy Ritchey and Kendell Marvel .
Strait commented on making this the title track : `` It did n't come about until after the record was done , and that 's such an obvious title for it .
If ` twang ' is not what I do , then I do n't know what is . ''
Twang was produced by Strait and his long-time collaborator Tony Brown at Jimmy Buffet 's Shrimpboat Sound Studio in Key West , Florida .
