Chris Tomlin is a very prolific songwriter , but he did n't write this one : it was composed by the Northern Irish group Bluetree , who recorded it on their 2007 album Greater Things .
In our Chris Tomlin interview , he explained , '' ` God of this City ' is a song that I heard when I was in Ireland playing at this worship night in Belfast .
There was this band who played there before us named Bluetree who played the song .
It was their song in their church that they 'd written and it just caught me .
Just went , ` Wow , what is that ? '
We were taking doing a Passion with our Passion venture ; we were going to do these cities around the country and going to these different cities , Dallas , Boston , L.A. , Chicago , some of the major cities of the US , and I knew this would be a great song to sing over these cities .
Then a world tour was going to be coming up and I knew singing over these cities in the world would be amazing .
So I asked , ` This song has come out of you guys , could I record it and take it with us for Passion ? '
And they were like , ` Yeah , man , we 'd love that . '
It 's amazing to hear it here in the United States .
It 's become such a theme song .
Especially in tough times , this song becomes a rallying cry . ''
2009 American Idol winner Kris Allen sometimes includes this song as part of his live repertoire .
Aaron Boyd of Bluetree , who recorded the original version of this song , explained in a video interview how it came together : We are from a church in Belfast .
We get asked by our missions pastors in the church , `` Do you want to go to Thailand ? ''
And our guys being our guys , we 're like , `` Yeah .
No hassle .
We 're in .
`` And Bangkok is probably the most in your face sex tourist capital of the planet .
So we ended up playing at a brothel .
Via someone who knew someone , we ended up playing in a bar called the Climax Bar .
We had to bring a whole load of Christians with us , who would all buy Coca Cola , and we would have the ability to play a two hour set in the middle of this bar.And I can remember looking out over my left shoulder and seeing just , I do n't know whether or not it was British tourists or whatever , but I can remember just looking out , and here they are in the middle of the street and they 're just hearing these Jesus songs blasting out .
And there 's just a pile of them just standing outside the door .
And they were just looking .
And I would love to know what 's going on in their heads , you know , just going , `` Who the heck are these guys singing Jesus songs for in the middle of this street ?
`` And I just began to sing out what I believed God was saying over that city .
I just began to say that , you know , God is God of this city , he 's the king of these people , he 's the lord of this nation .
And they do n't know that .
They do n't know that.And the song was born .
The song came out of this love that started to play , a real minor downbeat loop .
And it just majored up into this like anthem of the night .
And greater things have yet to come and greater things are still to be done in this city.Really , probably the biggest moment in my life , that changed my life , was the moment that `` God of the City '' was actually formulated .
What is the church on a global scale doing to actually combat things which exist on our planet that are completely wrong , whether it 's child soldiers , prostitution in your own city , homeless in your own city , anything what 's going on , what is the church doing ?
We should be the pioneers .
We need to understand that we have an authority , that we have an authority that comes from Christ , to see part of Christ from the dead lives in every single one of us .
And that we actually need to have an attitude of going out and serving the world with just with love , and actually living out the great connection .
