This song is based on a real person who was a drug dealer that lived near Joel in Oyster Bay , New York , but as the singer explained in a 1975 interview with ZigZag , the character `` Captain Jack '' was a composite of different kinds of people .
Said Joel : `` I was just sitting around one day looking out of the window wondering what I was going to write about , and kinda wrote about what was going on outside .
I mean , Long Island is a suburb and it was about a suburban type of character .
There 's a lot of frustration living in the suburbs - you do n't have an identity as you would if you came from the city or the country , there 's city music and there 's country music , but there 's really no suburban music , you kinda copy the city .
You have both influences pulling on you . ''
While many songs contain references to masturbation -LRB- check out `` She Bop '' or `` Whip It '' -RRB- , this is one of the few that actually uses the word `` masturbate '' in the lyrics .
This , along with the marijuana references , kept it off the playlists at most radio stations .
Joel is a prolific hitmaker , but many of his lesser-known songs became fan favorites even though they were not commercially successful .
Many of these songs , including this one , appeared on Joel 's 1981 live album Songs In The Attic .
John Kalodner quoted Joel 's explanation of this ballad about the `` lost '' affluent suburban youth in a review for Concert magazine in 1974 .
Said Joel : `` It 's about coming out of the New York suburbs , but in my travels I have seen a lot of the same suburb all over the country .
The song is sort of brutal , but sometimes it is good to be brutal and offend people - it keeps them on their toes . ''
-LRB- Source John Kalodner-The Official Site -RRB- .
Joel considers this an anti-drug song , as he sings about how their users become apathetic and lifeless .
Before playing this at concerts , Joel has explained to the audience that the song is about spoiled , lazy , apathetic young college students who do n't care about much other than partying and having sex ; their family has money and paid for them to receive a good education , but they toss it away and do n't care for anything except ` good ol' Captain Jack . '
-LRB- thanks , Leon - Waterbury , CT -RRB- In 1973 , Joel got a contract with Columbia Records after the Philadelphia radio station WMMR started playing a live version of `` Captain Jack '' from a show the station sponsored a year earlier .
Joel wrote the song about a year before he recorded it on Piano Man .
This was played at Hillary Clinton 's official announcement for her Senate run in 2000 .
Her opponent , New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani , claimed that by playing this she was supporting drug use .
In a blatant case of political grandstanding , Giuliani called a news conference and read some of the song 's more offensive lyrics .
Clinton 's people did n't mean to play the song : they played `` New York State Of Mind '' but left Joel 's Greatest Hits album on too long .
