This song about traveling the globe is a single from American pop-rock band OneRepublic 's second studio album , Waking Up .
The song had a long shelf life .
It peaked at # 8 on the Hot 100 nearly two years after its initial release , thanks to its use in various media .
`` Good Life '' was featured in the trailers for the films Eat Pray Love and One Day , and had TV placements in the series Cougar Town , Gossip Girl , One Tree Hill , Rookie Blue and 90210 .
The background music was played on various Walt Disney World television and radio commercials during a six month campaign and in August 2012 , the tune was featured in a Honda Summer Clearance Event commercial .
Ryan Tedder 's lyrics are actually about a trip he took to London .
But the OneRepublic frontman knew to have a hit he 'd have to make it more universal and also something he could relate to , since he would have to sing it ever night .
`` I 'm not thinking , ` Let 's write something that 's going to make the kids dance , ' '' he told Radio.com .
`` You have to write something that you want to sing every night .
So the hardest part with every song , personal and universal , kind of getting that balance . ''
OneRepublic frontman and principal songwriter Ryan Tedder has penned a number of smash hits both for his band -LRB- `` Apologize '' -RRB- and for other artists `` Bleeding Love '' -RRB- .
In an interview with NPR about the art of songwriting , he discussed writing hooks and explained it did n't necessarily have to be the chorus like in the case of this song .
Said Tedder : `` The hook can be the track itself .
Like in Coldplay , ` Clocks ' the hook was -LSB- hums the opening piano riff -RSB- -- that was the hook .
In -LSB- Black Eyed Peas ' -RSB- ` Boom Boom Pow , ' there is no hook .
It is just one section after another of really catchy , infectious club music without any one section overriding the next.In the upcoming single , ` Good Life , ' the real hook is the post hook -- it 's what comes after it .
We have this REALLY super simple whistle .
I had n't heard a whistle in a song in forever and that 's all I kept hearing on the song so I just whistled this melody into the mic and it really is the hook -- it 's the catchiest part of the song . ''
The music video was directed by Ethan Lader -LRB- Mariah Carey 's `` Oh Santa ! ''
, Bruno Mars ' `` Just The Way You Are '' -RRB- and was shot during a break in OneRepublic 's 2010 Fall tour .
