This honky-tonk ode to good times and music in bars is the title track from Chris Young 's third album .
It was released as the third single from the set on March 26 , 2012 .
The song 's narrator sings of playing some Johnny Lee on a jukebox .
Texan born Johnny Lee is a Country singer who is best known for his hit `` Lookin ' For Love , '' which reached # 5 on the Hot 100 in 1980 .
Rosen told Taste of Country : `` I do n't remember who came up with it , but when we got the rhyme ` with a little Johnny Lee on , ' we knew we were all in and off to the races . ''
When the songwriting trio had completed the song , they immediately thought of sending it to George Strait .
However , Osborne 's publishing company pitched it to Chris Young instead , who put it on hold after hearing the demo .
`` Chris did such an amazing job on the song , '' said Rosen to Taste of Country .
`` We look back now and are so thankful he got to hear it before George or anybody else , because we ca n't imagine the song being in better hands !
It 's funny how one little word idea that Shane casually jotted down on his phone could lead to what it has . ''
Shane McAnally , Josh Osborne and Trevor Rosen wrote the song .
`` Josh , Shane and I were writing in my living room one day , '' Rosen recalled to Taste of Country of the day they penned the tune .
`` Shane was going through some titles and song ideas he had , like he often does when we get ready to write .
We paused when he said ` Neon ' and we talked about what that title might be about for a couple minutes .
Then he kept going with some more titles .
At one point , Josh and I said , ` You know ... there 's something to that ` Neon ' idea , ' and we started singing all these different rhymes for the word ` neon , ' which ended up being the main structure of the chorus . ''
The lyrics mention just about every color under the rainbow - plus neon .
Rosen recalled to Taste of Country : `` I remember starting to chunk on the verse melody , and the line , ` The sky in Cheyenne , Wyoming is just about as blue as it gets , ' kind of fell right out .
We immediately jumped on board and started painting scenes about other colors , too . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Ryan Hamblin and filmed at Melrose Billiards in Nashville .
