The Dresden Dolls ' lead singer and songwriter Amanda Palmer has a very dark sense of humor , which explains this song about an organist who rapes the person responsible for turning the pages of his music .
How did she come up with this image ?
In our interview with Amanda Palmer , she explained : `` I grew up in an Episcopal church , but I was never an official page turner .
The organist never had a page turner .
It was a small operation .
I wrote that song in college , because there was this guy , I think he might still tour , called The Lonesome Organist .
He was like a great sort of vaudeville-y one-man band .
And his shtick was that he played , like , 12 different instruments , and he had them all in one contraption .
So it was like a big , crazy drum set with keyboards and accordion , and things to blow in , and all sorts of stuff .
I remember seeing him , because he toured at my college , and the name stuck .
And I remember thinking , Lonesome Organist Rapes Page Turner would be a really hilarious newspaper heading .
So it was one of those songs that was written off the title .
He was totally Dr. Seuss .
And his music was really throwback rag-timey , great theatrical crazy stuff .
`` After our interview with Amanda , we heard from The Lonesome Organist , whose name is Jeremy .
He told us : `` I always wondered if that band had some sort of vendetta against me .
Now I know that that is not the case even if their song paints the lonesome organist name in a creepy unflattering manner .
How freeking weird . ''
Palmer wrote this song when she was in her late-teens or early-20s .
She said : `` I think it 's my most Smith-sy song to date .
I am a huge , huge Smiths fan and Morrissey fan , but I do n't think you can always hear the influence in that song .
To me it sounds like a blatant rip-off .
It was inspired by this running joke that I had this long string of piano teachers who all came on to me .
I did various things in various situations -LRB- laughing -RRB- , but I thought that was a very Morrissey situation to find myself in , and so I should write a very Morrissey-like song . ''
When we if she slapped these piano teachers in response to their advances , Palmer said : `` No , no ... see , it 's never dramatic like that .
I mean , the part of the equation you have to remember is that I was an incredibly saucy , flirty teenage girl with all sorts of stuff going on all the time .
But I think it 's probably fair to say that I seduced as many piano teachers as tried to seduce me . ''
