Tammy Wynette wrote this with Billy Sherrill .
Sherrill was a producer , songwriter and record executive who signed Wynette to Epic Records after other labels rejected her .
He was known for his elegant and meticulous production style -LRB- often adding strings to the mix -RRB- , which was unusual in the world of Country music .
This became the most successful recording of Tammy Wynette 's career and has been recorded by many other singers .
The song hit # 1 on the Country charts and found a new audience when it was featured on the soundtrack of the 1970 Jack Nicholson film , Five Easy Pieces .
At the time , it was the best selling single of all time by a female Country artist in America .
This song is about being faithful and supportive ; understanding that men have faults and sticking with your man through the bad times .
Some feminists criticized the song , believing it was belittling to women , who should not tolerate poor behavior from men .
Hillary Clinton even made the comment , `` I will not stand by my man like Tammy Wynette '' when her husband Bill was running for president in 1992 .
In 1975 , this song rose from the ashes to reach # 1 on the UK charts and propel Wynette to sudden fame in that country seven years after the song was first released .
American Country music was largely ignored in the UK , as most Brits could n't relate to the subject matter .
Charlie Rich , however , made a breakthrough in 1974 when his single `` The Most Beautiful Girl '' went to # 2 , proving that a Country song could be a Pop hit in the UK if it had a universal theme .
Most Country singles were released in advance of the International Country Music Festival for artists who were performing on the tour .
It took five releases of `` Stand By Your Man '' to make it a hit .
After the original UK release in 1969 , Wynette 's label , CBS , issued it again in 1971 , 1973 , and 1974 .
They tried for the fifth time on February 21 , 1975 , and strangely , the song made its way to # 1 on May 11 and stayed there for three weeks.Even more bizarre , Wynette pulled out of the festival because her marriage to George Jones was in turmoil , so the song got no tour support .
However , her first British tour , which was booked before the song was a hit , brought her to the UK when the song was # 1 .
The tour was extended , and a compilation album issued to satisfy demand for Wynette 's catalogue .
A few months later , her 1969 hit `` D-I-V-O-R-C-E '' was also issued , going to # 12 in the UK .
Wynette 's 1978 autobiography is titled Stand By Your Man .
The first line : `` The first time I met George Jones , he was in bed with another woman . ''
Wynette said that she wrote the song in 15 minutes and spent a lifetime defending it .
She insisted that she had no political motive , and that it was `` just a pretty love song .
`` The women 's liberation movement -LRB- `` women 's lib '' -RRB- , however , thought the sentiment in the song was contrary to their cause , and Wynette became their example of a compliant wife willing to defer to her husband .
When pressed on the issue , she told Melody Maker : `` I can sympathize very easily because I have seen it happen in Mississippi where I was raised , and Alabama , growing up as a child , where a woman could n't make a third of what a man could make doing an identical job .
I can sympathize with that , and I feel it 's very wrong .
A woman should be equal to a man for anything she 's capable of doing , but I still feel there 's a lot of things she is n't capable of doing .
Physically .
Personlly , I 'm not particularly fond of the thought of digging ditches or climbing telephone poles .
I 'd rather stick with something a little more feminine .
I would n't want to lose the little courtesies that we 've always been extended , like lighting cigarettes and opening doors , and pulling out chairs and things like that .
I enjoy that .
I guess I just enjoy being a woman . ''
This was the first song Wynette wrote with her producer Billy Sherrill .
At the time , she had very little faith in her songwriting , and when she played the song to George Jones , who she would marry the next year , she did n't get any encouragement .
`` I went home and played it for George and he did n't like it , '' she said in 1978 .
`` He did n't know I 'd written it , so I asked him what he did n't like and he said ' I dunno , I just do n't care for the song . '
That kinda got me started off wrong with ` Stand By Your Man ' , but it 's grown on me now . ''
There was a limit to how long Wynette would stand by her man .
She was married five times to five different men , and all of those marriages ended in divorce .
Her third marriage was a tumultuous one to George Jones , that lasted six years .
They divorced in 1975 , but worked together again in the '90s , touring and releasing a 1995 duets album called One .
Wynette died in 1998 at age 55 .
In 1991 , Wynette appeared on the KLF song Justified And Ancient , where she was revered as `` The first lady of Country . ''
The KLF song was subtitled `` Stand by the JAMs '' in reference to this title .
