This song is about Amadou Diallo , a Guinean immigrant who was killed in his New York City doorway when New York City police shot at him 41 times after mistaking his wallet for a gun .
Springsteen felt that the shooting was an egregious over-reaction by the police , who killed an innocent man .
The song sparked enormous media coverage when it was part of The Boss ' tour-ending 10-night stand at Madison Square Garden in 2000 .
The performances of the song in New York resulted in protests by the New York City Police Department and the Police Benevolent Association , who saw it as an attack on the NYPD -LRB- some cops refused to work security at the shows -RRB- .
Springsteen has stressed that this song is not anti-police , but anti-tragedy .
This was the last song Springsteen and the band played on their 2001 HBO special , which was made up of footage from the last two shows of their 1999-2000 tour .
It was the first televised Springsteen show .
Springsteen described the thought process behind the track in his 2001 published lyric collection , Songs .
`` Though the song was critical , it was not ` anti-police ' as some thought .
The first voice you hear after the intro is from the policeman 's point of view , '' he said .
`` I worked hard for a balanced voice .
I knew a diatribe would do no good .
I just wanted to help people see the other guy 's point of view . ''
This protest number was written in 2000 and played for the first time at a concert in Atlanta on June 4 , 2000 , over a year into Springsteen 's tour with the reunited E Street Band .
A live version was released on the Live in New York City album , and the same version appeared a few years later on The Essential Bruce Springsteen .
In 2014 , a studio version appeared on the album High Hopes .
The Boss said in the liner notes for the album that he felt is was among the best songs he had written and deserved a proper studio recording .
Springsteen was honored by The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People -LRB- NAACP -RRB- in recognition of this song .
The song has periodically reappeared on Springsteen 's setlists in response to newsworthy events that deal with its subject matter .
It was revived for the E Street Band 's live set after the shooting of the African-American teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida in 2012 .
