This is the title track from Lady Gaga 's EP , The Fame Monster .
The songs on the EP were initially intended to be part of a re-release of Gaga 's debut album , The Fame .
However , the singer announced that the new songs would be available as a stand alone EP , as she thought re-releases were unfair and the EP represents a separate conceptual and musical body of work , which reflected the seamier side of fame , as experienced by Gaga since the release of her best-selling debut album .
A month before the release of The Fame Monster , Gaga launched a new headphone in conjunction with BSM Monster .
However , she claimed the shared names was not a marketing ploy , but she wrote this song three months before discussions for the collaboration commenced .
Gaga told Rolling Stone : `` It 's so funny because I had already written a song for my re-release called ` Monster ' back in March .
I said , ' I ca n't believe you guys are called Monster because I 'm obsessed with monster movies right now and I 'm kind of obsessing over the decay of the celebrity and the way that fame is a monster in society ! '
That 's what my new record is about , so it was kind of a perfect fit . ''
GaGa told MTV News that in this song , she is addressing her fear of relationships .
`` It 's the fear of attachment and the fear of loving something that 's bad for you , '' she explained .
`` If you listen to the lyrics , it 's like being in love with the bad boy all the time , and you keep going back for more .
`` She added : `` I keep falling in love with the monster .
But what I really need is the security and the safety and the womanhood , responsibility of my femininity .
And so that 's what that song is about . ''
The song was co-written and produced by Lady Gaga 's frequent collaborator RedOne , who also sings back-up on the choruses .
It 's about a guy she `` french kissed on a subway train '' who ended up showing her what a `` Monster '' in bed he was .
Lady Gaga said of the album in a press release : `` On my re-release The Fame Monster , I wrote about everything I did n't write on The Fame .
While traveling the world for two years , I 've encountered several monsters , each represented by a different song on the new record : my ` Fear of Sex Monster , ' my ` Fear of Alcohol Monster , ' my ` Fear of Love Monster , ' my ` Fear of Death Monster , ' my ` Fear of Loneliness Monster , ' etc. ''
