The magazine for Rutgers University Alumni - Spring 2009 - carried an article about this song and the band itself .
The 4 members of Looking Glass are alumni of Rutgers .
The pertinent part reads : `` The band recorded the song seven times before they got it right .
` Brandy ' - based on the name of -LRB- lead singer -RRB- Elliot Lurie 's high school sweetheart ` Randy ' - tells the story of a musician torn between his love for a life at sea and his love for a barmaid .
Released as the B-side of ` Do n't It Make You Feel Good , ' the song was overlooked , as was the A-side , for that matter , until Harv Moore , a Washington DC disc jockey took it up as a personal cause .
After years of playing covers and their originals at frat parties and bars in the New Brunswick area , Looking Glass was signed to Epic Records by the legendary Clive Davis .
The band , appearing on Dick Clark 's American Bandstand and at Carnegie Hall , never came close to matching ` Brandy 's ' success .
And by 1973 , Lurie had left for a solo career .
He was replaced , but the band soon fell apart .
In 1995 , Looking Glass reunited to perform ` Brandy ' and ` Jimmie loves Mary-Anne ' at a Madison Square Garden concert .
in 2000 , ` Brandy ' was part of the sound track for the film Charlie 's Angels , for which band members and Peter Sweval 's estate each received a royalty check of $ 30K -LRB- Sweval died of AIDS in 1992 -RRB- .
The members of the band also receive the modest sum of $ 4K each year for the general use of the song .
Says former drummer Jeff Grob , wistfully : ` If only liquor commercials were allowed on TV .
Where the former band members are today : Larry Gonsky RC '70 -LRB- keyboards -RRB- teaches music in the Morristown school district ; Jeff Grob CC '85 -LRB- drums -RRB- after playing with the hard-rock band Starz , returned to school and earned his landscape architecture degree .
He works for Stantec , which contributed to the redesign of Route 18 .
He still plays locally with Richie Ranno 's All Stars ; Elliot Lurie RC '70 -LRB- lead guitar -RRB- manages actors and recording artists , including Corbin Bleu of High School Musical fame , in Los Angeles .
He worked as an independent music film supervisor and executive vice president of music at 20th Century Fox ; Pieter Sweval RC '70 -LRB- bass -RRB- played with Starz and the disco band Skatt Bros before dying of AIDS in 192 .
Royalties are donated by Sweval 's family to AIDS research . ''
-LRB- thanks , Steven - Patterson , NY -RRB- This was not typical of the band 's sound , which caused a problem at concerts .
While audiences expected Pop songs like this , the Looking Glass played Rock , which left the crowds disappointed .
The band broke up less than 2 years later .
The band was signed by Clive Davis , a legendary record executive who has nurtured the careers of many successful artists , including Santana , Billy Joel and Whitney Houston .
Davis has a knack for knowing a hit song when he hears one , but he got this one wrong , releasing it as the B-side of their song `` Do n't It Make You Feel Good . ''
Harv Moore , a disc jockey in Washington DC , flipped the record and played `` Brandy '' instead .
It became very popular in the DC area , and quickly spread nationwide .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England -RRB- There was a song called `` Brandy '' by an artist named Scott English that was popular around the same time in the UK .
When Barry Manilow recorded it , he changed the title to `` Mandy '' to avoid confusion with this song .
