`` Malagasy '' means `` From Madagascar . ''
This song tells of singer and guitarist Raul Pacheco 's harrowing near death experience when he was electrocuted on stage at a show in Madagascar during the group 's work on behalf of the US Department of State as cultural ambassadors .
Pacheco said in publicity materials : `` Sometimes you are shocked into realizing life must be lived with a profoundly energetic fervor . ''
He added after pausing , '' ... and sometimes you are just actually shocked ! ''
So what 's this about Ozomatli traveling to Madagascar at the request of the US government ?
During the George W. Bush administration , Karen Hughes , who was the Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy , made an effort to send bands around the world to foster goodwill through music .
It created an interesting conflict , as Ozomatli opposed the war in Iraq and were not supporters of Bush .
Putting politics aside , they toured the Middle East , India and Nepal as cultural ambassadors .
During the Cold War , the US State Department commissioned jazz players like Louis Armstrong , Charles Mingus , and Dizzy Gillespie to make similar trips spreading this unique American art form .
In our interview with Ozomatli bass player Wil-Dog Abers , he explained : `` We were in Madagascar playing .
We had just gotten on stage and started playing our instruments , and literally the first note that Raul -LRB- Pacheco -RRB- played -- once he got to the mike and he was playing his guitar , the whole P.A. 's current , he became a part of that loop of the current , and he got severely , severely electrocuted , and almost died .
We had to stop the show , rush him to the hospital .
And luckily he survived .
It 's a sad thing , because that was our only gig in Madagascar .
And we were playing in this park with 10,000 people waiting to hear us , and pretty excited , so it was a bummer .
So we got home and we wrote about it .
But we started getting into Malagasy music , so we were copying their music in a way , and so we decided to write it about that experience .
`` Asked if the song is styled on Malagasy music , Wil-Dog replied : `` We were only there for a short time and we did n't learn the music completely , but it 's our interpretation of it quickly . ''
