English retro blues rock band Little Barrie back Weller on this track .
Said Weller : `` Little Barrie and his band came down to the studio and played on this one .
It 's a rocking tune .
I like the idea of collaborating with new people .
If you listen to the lyric there 's an explanation as to why there 's only 21 tracks on the album .
I need to keep one for myself ! ''
Mojo magazine June 2008 asked Weller about the album title : He replied : `` It 's not anything , really .
It was going to be the title of the live album -LRB- Catch-Flame -RRB- .
People think it 's a football reference but it 's not that either . ''
Paul Weller told Mojo magazine March 2008 about the album : `` I wanted to do something different .
I felt I 'd gone as far as I could with my band , I needed to instigate a change to become inspired .
There were no fallings-out but I stripped it down to a nucleus of just me and -LRB- guitarist -RRB- Steve Cradock .
It 's really worked .
I started it last spring and it follows the passing of one year into the next , going through the seasons . ''
The album was produced by Simon Dine who also collaborated with Weller on his 2002 Illumination album -LRB- including the UK Top 10 single `` Written in the Stars '' -RRB- .
Dine also co-wrote several of the tracks .
Weller spoke to Uncut magazine about their collaboration : `` He 's an old mate , we 've known each other for a long time and we 've done some stuff together in the past , but I 've never co-written with him .
On this album there 's about five or six tracks co-writes with Simon .
Most of the things we did together involved him using a backing track - a drone or a drum loop or a sample - and I 'd lay down some melodies and lyrics over the top .
Then he 'd take it back and cut it up , and then I 'd adjust it , and then he 'd do something else .
I think that threw a few things up in the air .
And then there were other tracks that were almost totally improvised .
So it was just a different way of writing .
It 's not like two people in a room with acoustic guitars trying to write a song together . ''
