Burned out after four years of intense touring and recording and licking her wounds after an ill-starred romantic sojourn with Moon on Moon singer William Lemon , Bat For Lashes -LRB- aka Natasha Khan -RRB- , returned from America to her flat in the south of England , adrift and devoid of inspiration .
Slowly , her third album , The Haunted Man , began to take shape .
Khan told Mojo magazine : `` The second album came quickly after the first one , so I 'd been on tour for what seemed a long time and I was feeling torn between places .
I came back from living in New York and did n't really have any sense of home - I was lonely .
I had to reconnect with my friends , family and be a normal human being again . ''
The recording of a male voice choir on this song is actually an echo from them singing across an Italian canyon in Perusia .
Khan explained to NME : `` We recorded the voices and used an amp to project the sound over a canyon near where we were recording in Italy .
With that song and ` Lilies ' I was thinking about my grandmother , -LRB- but -RRB- I was also inspired by Ryan 's Daughter because it 's about a woman who 's stuck in this Irish village by the sea , and she waits for this soldier who comes over the hill .
I used that as a visual inspiration to talk about women waiting for men in a symbolic way , whether it 's in war or with someone who 's not there emotionally . ''
This is the title track , and along with `` Lilies , '' they were the first songs she wrote for the record .
Khan told Mojo : `` They 're the start point and the end point , even though ` Lilies ' is the first track .
The title track is definitely about the burden I 'd been feeling and that 's a recurring theme , although by the end there 's some resolution .
It 's very much an album about moving on from past mistakes , burdens or patterns . ''
The album cover by New York photographer Ryan McGinley shows Khan stripped off with a naked man slung over her shoulders .
Khan told the BBC that the idea for the shoot matches the mood of the record 's `` stripped back '' theme .
`` I love -LRB- McGinley -RRB- as a photographer and I 've been into him for a long time , '' she said .
`` I actually came across some of his work which he did with people holding wild animals and wolves and things like that and I just had this really strong epiphany in my head : ` Oh , I want to be carrying a man . ' ''
`` I think that goes really well with the theme of the record , '' she continued .
`` I also -LRB- liked -RRB- his approach to the body and women and men and just being quite stripped back - I 'm not wearing any make-up .
It 's not a sexual image , it 's more like just really stripping everything back and being really raw .
I think nowadays there 's so much emphasis on people , what they 're wearing , their make-up , their styling - you know , there 's like 40 people styling everyone .
I got a bit jaded with all of that and I just wanted to take it right back to being really natural and direct ... and presenting that in a non-sexual way . ''
