Dr. Phil viewers voted `` I 'll Be '' the greatest wedding song ever written , but in our interview with Edwin McCain , he revealed that the track was not intended as a love song at all : `` It was kind of a Hail Mary prayer for me , personally .
And it 's been obviously linked as a romantic song .
It 's one of those things that I hesitate to say too much , because sometimes songs become what they were supposed to be , and it 's not really up to the songwriter to determine what that is . ''
McCain added it is important for fans to come up with their own song interpretations : `` I 'm always amazed by the different things that people find in songs and typically they find what they need in music , and art in general is n't complete until the audience has gotten from it what they 're looking for . ''
Edwin told us he was going through a very difficult period in his life around the time he wrote this track : `` I look back on that time and the moment when I wrote the song , and we were in danger of being dropped from the record label , and the label was not happy with my sales numbers .
Which is really funny to say , because I think our first album sold like 250-300 ,000 copies , where today they would have a parade .
But back then those were disappointing numbers .
So I was in a place where everything that I had dreamed about in my whole life was kind of falling apart .
I was not dealing with that information in a healthy way .
I was drinking and following a course of action that would be described as self-destructive .
And it was a time that this was make or break .
This is it .
And it was Hail Mary .
If I do n't do something that 's worthy or that strikes a chord , or if I do n't do something great here , it 's over . ''
McCain said he poured all of his anxieties into `` I 'll Be '' : `` And the only thing I know how to do with songwriting is to be honest and emotional .
You have to be honest and emotional and admit the things that maybe you do n't want to .
And that was basically what I did .
I just put it all out there , here it is , here 's my scary moment , here 's my fear .
And here 's what I hope .
Here it is . ''
McCain believes his ` Hail Mary ' worked : `` I think it opened up a whole new lesson for me to learn in my life .
It gave me all the things that I thought I wanted and taught me a lot about myself . ''
Even though he admits it was not his original intention , Edwin told us that he is happy `` I 'll Be '' is such a popular wedding song : `` And the fact that people use ` I 'll Be ' for their weddings , and weddings do n't have an expiration .
Every year there are weddings .
I 'm not associated with the '90s , I 'm associated with weddings .
So it never ends .
It 's timeless . ''
McCain revealed to us that a break-up prompted him to pen this song : `` It was the end of a relationship for me , and it was also an admission of my inability to function in a relationship , hence the love suicide line .
And it was the hope that I would be better , grow and be better as a person .
I was struggling with some personal problems at the time , as well , so it was all of those things .
It was this admission of failure and this prayer that I could be a better person , wrapped up as sort of the end of a relationship kind of thought .
And it was something that I said to a girl that I 'd been going out with .
I knew that she was waiting , and I always said to her , ` Do n't ever look back on this in any other way than I 'll be your biggest fan . '
You know , ` I 'll always be a fan . ' ''
McCain is extremely thankful for the success of `` I 'll Be , '' without which he would be unable to play music to different audiences every night : `` In light of being a 41-year-old singer/songwriter traveling musician , that song is a gift that you ca n't even believe .
Because what it is is an invitation - everywhere I go , it 's an invitation to the town that I 'm in to people , and they go , ` Oh , let 's go hear that guy that sings that song . '
And I 've got 90 minutes to show 'em all this other stuff we do .
And it 's hard enough to get people to come out to hear music .
There 's so many other options .
To be able to put two or three hundred people in a room just on the back of one song is a gift .
It 's an unbelievable gift , and it gives me the opportunity to earn their return visit the next time I 'm in town .
`` During our interview , McCain vented his frustration at those artists who take their success for granted : `` It always cracks me up when I meet songwriters and musicians who have had one or two big hits and they feel resentful towards those songs , because that 's what they 're known for and they 're not known for anything else and they get this sort of bitterness about it .
I think to myself how incredibly selfish that is to not see it as the gift it truly is .
Don McLean has lived a life that he would never have achieved if not for ` Starry , Starry Night ' and ` American Pie . '
And I think he gets it .
I think he realizes how spectacularly lucky he is that he gets to sing these songs for people .
I sing ` I 'll Be ' every night with the same passion that I sang it with the first time I played it for the band . ''
