`` Lotta Love '' was written by Neil Young and recorded by Nicolette Larson .
It was her first charting single .
Nicolette Larson got her career jump as a backing singer for Neil Young on the albums American Stars 'n Bars -LRB- 1977 -RRB- and Comes a Time -LRB- 1978 -RRB- , so this is how he came to write for her .
How Nicolette met Neil : She had already been working as a recording artist , first on the 1975 Commander Cody album Tales From the Ozone -LRB- Commander Cody was best known for 1972 's `` Hot Rod Lincoln '' -RRB- , then eventually with Emmylou Harris , which led to her meeting Harris ' associate and friend Linda Ronstadt .
Larson visited Ronstadt 's Malibu home when neighbor Neil Young dropped by looking for a new female vocalist .
Neil and Larson had their first jam session that day and he was thrilled .
Together Larson and Ronstadt became `` The Saddlebags , '' credited as such on Young 's album .
`` Lotta Love '' also got released on Young 's own album Comes a Time - track 4 , side 1 .
This is one of the albums with the band Crazy Horse serving back-up duties , including on `` Lotta Love . ''
In case you had n't figured it out by now , Young and Larson also had a brief affair during this time .
And after they had split , who should be the very next woman for Young to get involved with but a waitress named Pegi working at the Bella Vista Restaurant , Pegi being the woman he would marry for good .
`` Lotta Love '' is the first track of what would prove to be a stellar album .
Nicolette reached # 15 on the US Album charts and was certified gold in the US and Canada .
In addition , Rolling Stone declared her Female Vocalist of 1978 on the strength of this album , despite its being released in September of that year.Despite her continued work and albums released until 1994 , she was never again to see this kind of success .
Her only other appearance on the Billboard Top-40 charts is at # 35 for her 1980 `` Let Me Go , Love , '' a duet with Michael McDonald .
However , she had many more charting singles on the Adult Contemporary and US Country charts - the country hits starting in the mid-1980s when she switched her genre to pure country .
