This was the first single from Damn Yankees , who were a supergroup that included Jack Blades from Night Ranger , Tommy Shaw from Styx , and Ted Nugent .
In our interview with Jack Blades , he explained : '' ` High Enough ' was about how you love someone so much and you just do n't want to scare them away .
And it 's like , do I take the next step ?
And then she freaks out when you go , ' I love you . '
And it 's like , ` What !?!? I 'm outta here ! '
And you 're , ` Wait a minute !
Come back ! '
But then the girl comes back , because in the bridge it 's , -LRB- singing -RRB- ` The next thing I remember I was running back for more . '
You know how you get scared at first when you fall in love , and everybody freaks out , and that ca n't be right .
And then you go , Wait a minute , this is great , let 's forget about the past .
Can you fly me over yesterday ?
Can you take me high enough to fly me over yesterday ? ''
When you think of Jack Blades , Tommy Shaw and Ted Nugent , you probably picture them on stage or in the studio , but long before they get there , they have to write the songs .
And according to Blades , this skill takes a certain gift .
`` It 's not something that 's really cool , or something that 's really a big thing , it 's just something that happens that I do .
Like I drive a car -- except I come up with rhymes , '' he said .
`` I do n't look at it as anything special .
It 's just how I 've been all my life , so I do n't see it as something really unique and amazing , because it 's just what I do .
Half the time it is like you 're like channeling something .
When you sit down and write a song , it 's almost like you 're channeling a higher power , whom I choose , of course , to call God , -LRB- laughing -RRB- but other people would choose to call it whatever .
And I just do n't know where else that kind of stuff can come from .
But just to be able to sit back and be quiet and muse , and all of the sudden you start writing down things .
You 've got ta be channeling something from somewhere else . ''
Explaining how they came up with this song , Blades told us : `` I was downstairs at Tommy Shaw 's flat in New York City .
We were all sitting around and I 'm doing laundry down in the basement , because I had just gotten to his place , and I 'm just singing , ' I do n't want to hear about it anymore , it 's a shame I 've got to live without you anymore . '
Tommy 's like , ` Hey , what 's that ? '
And I said , ' I do n't know .
Just something I 'm singing around with . '
` That sounds great . '
So I went upstairs and we started banging around on a piano , and then we switched over to guitars , and then in about a half hour we 'd written the whole song ` High Enough . '
So in that case the melody and the words came before anything else .
That got us to finish the rest of the song .
That spurred us on . ''
Ted Nugent is known for his manic energy on stage and highly opinionated personality .
In the wrong band , he would be combustible , but Damn Yankees was a good fit .
Blades explains : `` Ted is a blast , he is so much fun .
I produced Ted 's last album .
Ted is Ted , man , you do n't want to calm any of that down .
With the Damn Yankees , that 's really fun , because there were no egos there , nobody was trying to outdo the other guy or anything like that .
All we ever wanted to do was be the best that we could be , and we just got together and wrote all those songs , and then got up on stage and started playing , and let Ted do his Ted thing .
I would n't want Ted to calm down one bit . ''
