When Jackson Browne sat down at the piano to perform this song live for BBC Television at London 's Shepherd 's Bush Theatre in 1978 , he introduced it saying , `` This is a true story ` bout a guy I knew ... he met a really beautiful girl , and that 's where the sad part comes in . ''
During another performance , Browne explained this actually was a true story ; the girl in question was wearing a green leotard and was sixteen years old .
But rather than hit the sack with Rosie , the sound mixer exacted a rather embarrassing revenge on the drummer .
After sitting brooding over a few drinks in the hotel bar , he nailed his hotel door shut with coins -LRB- apparently this is an old trick -RRB- .
When it was time to leave , the drummer had to call the desk to get them to remove the door , leaving him to explain the jailbait in his room .
On the face of it , this is a fairly straightforward song about a concert technician who meets an attractive young girl before the start of the show , gives her his pass so she can get in , buys her a beer , and things are looking good , this could be the girl of his dreams , or if not that , then at least he 'll get laid .
At the end of the show , the girl is swept away by the drummer .
This is not the first time this sort of thing has happened , our hero laments .
But , if the girl leaves with the drummer , who is this Rosie who is sharing his bed in the chorus ?
`` But Rosie you 're all right , You wear my ring , When you hold me tight , Rosie that 's my thing , When you turn out the light , I 've got to hand it to me , Looks like it 's me and you again tonight , Rosie .
`` If the BBC had known Rosie 's true identity , it is quite likely that in 1978 , this song would have been cut from the broadcast , and if it is n't obvious by now , all will be revealed in the 1994 publication The Book of Lists : The '90s Edition , by David Wallechinsky and Amy Wallace.Under Adam Block 's Secret Subjects of 15 Pop Songs , `` Rosie '' is said to have been co-written with a roadie named Donald Miller .
Rosie Palm or Rosie Palms is in fact a colloquialism for masturbation .
Sometimes she is said to have a friend named Jill ; the J is made with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand , the I is the middle finger and the other two fingers make the L 's .
Although songs about this particular aspect of the sexual act are not common , they are far from unknown , perhaps the best known being the Pete Townsend composition `` Pictures Of Lily '' , and the most blatant Ivor Biggun 's `` The Winker 's Song -LRB- Misprint -RRB- '' which includes a reference to Mrs Palm `` and her five lovely daughters '' .
One footnote : When introducing this song , Jackson Browne would always stress that it was not about him - for obvious reasons !
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for all above -RRB-
