This is a duet with Amy Grant .
Peter Cetera had already had one American chart topper in 1986 with `` Glory Of Love . ''
However Amy Grant was relatively unknown at the time outside of the Christian music scene where she was known as the `` Queen of Christian Pop . ''
When Cetera 's friend , songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Bobby Caldwell offered him this song , Peter decided to record it as a duet .
He decided that he wanted to help a young singer , somebody who had n't been used before .
Amy Grant was suggested and though he had initial reservations because of her Christian music background , he liked what she stood for and thought she had a great voice .
Grant was grateful for the opportunity as it gave her an entry into the secular Pop scene .
Caldwell wrote this together with his Songwriting partner Paul Gordon .
They originally pitched the song to Chicago , unaware that Peter Cetera had left the group .
Fortunately Cetera was recording a solo album and he was looking for songs to record .
This was produced by Michael Omartian .
Among the many other songs he 's produced are `` Undercover Angel '' by Alan O'Day , `` Arthur 's Theme -LRB- Best That You Can Do -RRB- '' by Christopher Cross and `` She Works Hard For The Money '' by Donna Summer .
Bobby Caldwell is best known for his 1979 American # 9 hit `` What You Wo n't Do For Love , '' which has subsequently had over 70 cover recordings and samples .
These include Go West 's 1993 version , which peaked at # 15 in the UK & # 55 in the US and rapper Tupac Shakur who had a Top 30 hit in both the UK and US in 1998 with his version , `` Do For Love . ''
Bobby Caldwell is even better known in Japan where in 1992 , he received the nation 's equivalent of a Grammy as the `` best international artist . ''
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England , for above 2 -RRB- Caldwell told American Songwriter magazine September/October 1988 that the twosome were having difficulties coming up with the next line to `` I remember the line that you came up with that put me on the floor . ''
He recalled : `` We sat for three days and all of a sudden , sitting there one day , Paul looks up and says ' I will know better why the next time I try . '
And that was it . ''
Gordon recalled to American Songwriter magazine that Caldwell 's demo was different from Omartian 's final version of the song and they had n't intended the song to be a duet .
However the duo were pleased with the finished version .
He added : `` Michael did n't copy Bobby 's demo , even though Bobby 's arrangement was excellent .
A lot of people I know enjoy the demo as much as the record , if not more .
And I 'm taking nothing away from the demo 'cause it was great .
Michael is a musician and that 's what kind of producer he is .
He did n't want to take Bobby 's vision .
He wanted his own vision . ''
