`` Hold On '' was the first charting success for the Canadian Progressive Rock trio Triumph , with Rik Emmet on lead guitar and vocals , Gil Moore on drums and vocals , and Michael Levine on bass and keyboards .
This uplifting , inspirational song is from their debut album Just A Game.Despite the lyrics , Rik Emmett did n't write this song because he doubted himself or his ability to achieve his dreams .
Rik told us , `` I was singing those vowel sounds , like open vowels , high , over top of chord changes , and then ` Hold on , Hold on ' sort of came out of holding these open vowel sounds .
So now I was going to say , ` Okay , so the song 's going to be called ` Hold On . '
What am I going to hold on for ?
Well , I 'm going to hold on to my dreams . '
Then the lyrics grew backwards out of the hook . ''
-LRB- Here 's the full interview with Rik Emmett . -RRB-
Rik Emmett left the band in 1988 ; Triumph soldiered on without him , briefly bringing in Phil Xenidis as a replacement , before fizzling out in the early '90s .
However , all three original members reformed somewhat by the late 2010s , releasing a greatest-hits album and mentioning that they might tour again .
Because of the technical difficulty of the song as it was recorded in the studio , it has never been performed by the entire band live .
A stripped-down , acoustic version can be heard recorded live on the album Stages .
Did Triumph invent the concept of marketing via music video ?
Emmett in an interview for MTV Ruled the World - The Early Years of Music Video , shares this : `` In its early stages for Triumph , we were lucky that we had videos , because -LSB- bassist -RSB- Mike Levine had the vision , because we were signed to RCA , and they were coming out with these newfangled VHS machines and really had a corporate desire to try and sell these things .
The whole idea of the convergence of different branches of a large conglomerate - that kind of thinking had n't really taken hold yet , but it was just starting .
And Mike went , ' Hey RCA , you 've got a division where you manufacture these VHS machines , right ?
But you 've also got a record label , right ?
Well , why would n't you have some concert footage of a band you 're trying to promote , put your machines in every record store you can , run a loop of these guys playing , and use that with an RCA television sitting in every store , and you 'll be promoting the band , the television , and your VHS machine .
This is a marriage made in heaven for you guys ! '
And they went , ` Oh , yeah , jeez , that makes good sense ! '
So we had these videos that we made in ' 78 / ' 79 , set up on a soundstage somewhere in Kleinburg , Ontario .
When MTV started , they were desperate for content .
They had very few videos .
So they said , ` Oh , great , Triumph has some stuff ?
We 'll start running it . ' ''
