This is the title track of American heavy metal band Machine Head 's seventh full-length studio album , Unto The Locust .
An `` Advance Mix '' was included on the 2011 Mayhem Festival iTunes sampler , which was released on June 14 , 2011 .
The album was released worldwide on September 27 , 2011 .
It is estimated that the largest swarms of locusts have covered hundreds of miles and consisted of many billions of the insects .
In ancient times the trail of destruction led by clouds of locusts resulted in armies being set against them and priests putting them on trial .
In the 1870s settlers in the west of America encountered the Rocky Mountain Locust .
Already struggling after two years of drought , a massive locust swarm , 1,800 miles long and over 110 miles wide reaped massive destruction causing $ 200 million in crop damage in Colorado , Nebraska , and several other states.Prayers were said for deliverance and without warning the locusts disappeared never to return .
The insects ' extinction has been a source of puzzlement .
Recent research suggests that during the large influx of settlers their breeding grounds in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains came to be disturbed .
The plowing and irrigation by the settlers of the sandy river beds accidentally destroyed the underground eggs and today North America is the only populated continent without a major locust .
Guitarist Phil Demmel explained the song 's meaning to Sonic Excess : '' ` Locust , ' is a concept I came up with , based on a few people I have encountered in my life , just like everybody has .
The type of person that just comes into your life under a different guise , under false pretenses , to befriend you , be your buddy , be your man , be on your team , or , you know , to be your lover or whatever .
Their goal is just to soak up all your resources and just to drain you of all you 've got , whatever you have to offer .
Once they 're discovered , they fly off into the next crop and drain that of everything .
Yeah , it just feels like hell . ''
