Following the departure of guitarist John Frusciante in 2009 , the Red Hot Chili Peppers recruited longtime associate Josh Klinghoffer to replace him .
Klinghoffer began writing and jamming with the band on October 12 , 2009 , the same day that Brendan Mullen - the LA nightclub owner who gave the band their first break - passed away .
This acoustic ballad is a tribute to Mullen .
Bassist Flea recalled to Spin magazine : `` The first day that we ever played together with Josh after taking two years off , we found out that a very close friend of all of ours had died .
We started jamming and came up with a song that 's on the record , called ` Brendan 's Death Song , ' about our friend Brendan Mullen .
We improvised and it happened .
It was a poignant moment for us .
It was an emotional thing . ''
The video was directed by Marc Klasfeld , who was also responsible for the `` The Adventures of Rain Dance Maggie '' and `` Monarchy Of Roses '' clips .
The first part of the video was shot in New Orleans and sees the band giving Mullen a proper jazz funeral , RHCP-style .
The final act was filmed at McDonoghville Cemetery in Louisiana , and finds the Chilli Peppers performing against a backdrop of burning letters that reads `` Death Song . ''
Frontman Anthony Kiedis told Q magazine about the writing of the song : `` Brendan happened to die on the very first day we were going to rehearse with Josh Klinghoffer .
I was driving in from home up over the Santa Monica mountains when I got a text saying Brendan had died of a massive stroke - on his birthday .
When I got to rehearsal I delivered the news to my band that we had just lost this beautiful person .
And then we started playing without talking .
Probably the second thing that came out of that jam was the basis for ` Brendan 's Death song . '
`` He added : `` We got a good recording of it with Rick -LRB- Rubin -RRB- .
It does have a sort of death march feel to it , but the song is more of a celebration than a bummer .
My favorite part of the song came much later - which is the bridge section where it gets quite dark there for a moment and there 's this feeling of falling into the unknown abyss , of dying .
So yes , we lost a good man , but he had a very full life . ''
In a tribute he penned on October 14 , 2009 for the L.A. Times , Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers wrote : Brendan Mullen had a lot of friends .
I was one of them .
When the Red Hots started in 1983 , Brendan was booking the Club Lingerie , and because he was booking it , it was an exciting place to play .
One knew that he would be playing in the company of interesting , inventive musicians , the avant of independent music , youth culture or not .
Brendan created a fertile , exciting , creative environment , the type of scene that inspired musicians to reach out , to try and find new sounds .
Anthony -LSB- Kiedis -RSB- and I walked in there one afternoon to see him , armed with a boombox and our first demo tape .
We were trying to hustle our act , saying and doing what we thought we needed to do to try to get a gig .
Brendan was polite but could have cared less whether we were cool , or popular , or could sell tickets .
He wanted to hear the music .
We sat down and played it for him ; he focused and listened , making occasional insightful comments about the music .
We were so proud and excited when he liked it and booked us to open for Bad Brains .
It was a huge step for us to get that gig , but in a much more important way , I felt profoundly validated to be accepted and acknowledged by Brendan Mullen , who was a crucial part -- a hub -- of a scene that for me had mythological status .
When I first became conscious of the punk , innovative part of the youth rock scene in L.A. , it was 1980 .
We were hovering on the far outskirts of it ; about as close as we could get was to hang out in the Starwood parking lot and get in to see shows once in a while .
The more I learned about the wellspring for the intense punk rock scene that I loved , the more enthralled I was by it .
Then it was not the scene it would become -- macho and violent , with rules about haircuts and uniforms -- it was a freethinking , vibrant , artistic scene of groundbreaking bands like the Germs , the Weirdos , the Screamers , all groups who sounded completely different from each other but were united by their willingness to be their own freaky selves , embrace an intense new rhythm and raise a robust middle finger to the face of the rock music corporate structure and all of its musical lackeys .
When Brendan started the Masque , it was a pure act , creating a place for people he liked -LRB- the aforementioned bands and many others -RRB- to do their thing , have fun and get wild , no salesmen allowed .
It became a nucleus for a thrilling new music environment that gave birth to the Southern California punk rock music scene , which later gave birth to some of the most important rock music to ever come out of California : X , Black Flag , Los Lobos and then later , the Minutemen , Jane 's Addiction and the -LRB- humbly I say -RRB- Red Hots .
He also played drums for Hal Negro and the Satin Tones .
It was an exciting cross-cultural punk scene that embraced all races , genders , sexual orientations and any manner of deviant .
It was beautiful .
Just no phonies .
Brendan Mullen was key in all of this .
Brendan was also a part of and present for the first hip-hop scene that made its way to Hollywood , working on shows with Ice-T , Afrika Bambaataa and the Arabian Prince .
Brendan never deserted the L.A. music scene through its ups and downs ; he always looked to what new exciting thing he could find , and in more recent years supported the music as a writer .
We always had great talks about music , of which he had a deep passion and an encyclopedic knowledge .
He loved music from the Contortions to Return to Forever to John Coltrane -- he signed off on all his recent e-mails to me `` A Love Supreme '' -- and everything in between and beyond .
We would talk at length about any kind of music and all the fun stories and folklore that surrounded it , and reminisce about the L.A. music scene .
He always had ideas , hopes and curiosities about more new and creative things to happen in the future .
Over the last year the Red Hot Chili Peppers had been working closely with Brendan on a book about our band , and we all spent many hours with him talking about our history , discussing the direction of the book , etc. .
Throughout all of it , we were grateful to work with someone who cared for and knew as much about music and its culture as he did .
But more than that , we were lucky to work with a friend , part of our family , one of us .
Whenever I came home to L.A. and saw him , I knew that I belonged to something , that I was in a place that was my home .
Brendan was an intellectual , a musician , a writer , a partyer and a regular dude .
And I speak for all of us when I say to Brendan ... a love supreme !
Brendan has broken through to the other side !
R.I.P. , Brendan Mullen .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB-
