This is the first single from Coheed and Cambria 's double album The Afterman , which is split into two parts , The Afterman : Ascension and The Afterman : Descension .
As with the band 's previous releases , the pair of LPs are part of their ongoing story series called The Amory Wars .
The two Afterman records focus on a character named Sirius Amory , a scientist who discovers an energy force known as The Keywork that can connect the universe 's 78 planets together .
Said frontman Claudio Sanchez : `` This is without a doubt , the most honest record I 've ever written .
Though all the songs can be interpreted through our main character in the story , they were initially written in a very spontaneous manner.In the past , I 've always had a predetermined idea of what the story was going to be when I approached the songs .
With The Afterman being a new story within The Amory Wars arc , I allowed the events of my life to drive the concept , and therefore opened up the songwriting to a fuller degree . ''
Robert Schober , whose previous work includes visuals for the likes of The Killers , Mastodon , Metallica and My Chemical Romance , directed the dark , cinematic boxing-themed video .
The band explained on their Facebook page how this song fits into the their ongoing The Amory Wars storyline : `` When Sirius enters the Keywork , he realizes this energy force is wholly made up of human souls .
This is their first contact with a human since they were living - The first soul to take over Sirius , to possess him , is Domino the Destitute .
Sirius must now experience Domino 's life as he lived it .
Keywork Entity Extraction I. '' Sanchez described this song during a track by track interview with Billboard magazine as an anthem inspired by the departure of bassist Mic Todd from the band .
`` It 's sort of a play on the rise of this champion , only to find that that rise is really actually his demise , and all the things that come with that attention , '' he said.Todd parted ways with Coheed and Cambria after being arrested for armed robbery and unlawful possession of narcotics .
He 'd reportedly robbed a Walgreens pharmacy in Attleboro , Massachusetts whilst touring with Soundgarden .
