In 1847 Placide Cappeau -LRB- 1808-1877 -RRB- , a French wine merchant and an amateur poet , was asked to write a Christmas poem by a local parish priest .
Shortly afterwards Cappeau traveled to Paris on a business trip and about half way through his journey , he had the inspiration for the poem Minuit , Chretiens -LRB- `` Midnight Christians '' -RRB- .
When Cappeau arrived in Paris , he took it to the composer Adolphe Adam -LRB- 1803-1856 -RRB- , a friend of a friend .
Adam , who specialized in light opera , is best remembered today for the ballet Giselle .
He wrote the tune in a few days and the hymn was played for the first time at midnight mass that Christmas Eve back in his home town of Roquemaure .
The carol was frowned upon by church authorities , who denounced it for lack of musical taste and `` total absence of the spirit of religion . ''
Many churchmen felt that Adam , a composer of light operatic works and ballets , was an inappropriate composer of a religious song .
However within a few years the carol was being translated into other languages and in 1855 , an American Unitarian clergyman John Sullivan Dwight -LRB- 1813-1893 -RRB- , the editor of Dwight 's Journal of Music , translated it into English , calling it `` O Holy Night . ''
In a 2006 poll of over 37,000 listeners , the British classical music radio station Classic FM voted this carol as the UK 's Christmas favorite .
In the first ever Official Carols Chart by the Official Charts Company in December 2009 , it was revealed this is the most downloaded carol in the UK .
Runner up was `` Silent Night '' , followed by `` Once In Royal David 's City '' in third place .
Official Charts Company MD Martin Talbot commented : `` The fact that ' O Holy Night ' has beaten more familiar carols such as ` Silent Night ' and ` Away In A Manger ' is something of a surprise , although its success is driven by the fact that popular mainstream singers such as Celine Dion , Aled Jones and Katherine Jenkins have recorded new versions over recent years . ''
This carol has the distinction of being the first song ever to be played live on a radio broadcast .
On December 24 , 1906 a Canadian inventor , Reginald Fessenden , broadcast one of the first ever AM radio programs , and the first ever to feature entertainment and music for a general audience , from his Brant Rock , Massachusetts station .
After playing Handel 's `` Largo '' on an Ediphone phonograph , he proceeded to play `` O Holy Night '' on his violin , singing the last verse as he played .
He finished the broadcast by reading various passages from the Gospel of Luke , before wishing his listeners a Merry Christmas .
Clay Aiken 's album Merry Christmas With Love won a Billboard Award for the Best Selling Christian Album of 2005 .
The carol entered the UK singles chart for the first time in 2012 with a version by the children of Ladywell Primary School in Motherwell , Scotland .
Proceeds from their single went to meningitis charities and it was recorded in memory of a 6-year-old classmate who died from the illness .
