Writing from the viewpoint of someone suffering from small-town claustrophobia , singer/songwriter Lori McKenna says this song is not about her own experiences , but rather from personal observances of growing up in Stoughton , Massachusetts .
`` The character sort of feels like they 're running off , or they want to run off and get the hell out .
I know people who have felt that way , but I actually never have felt that way about it .
But that 's exactly what it 's about , '' says McKenna.She describes writing in character as perhaps a way of `` living through everybody else . ''
She continues , `` Well , I think that maybe because of the fact that I 'm from a really tight-knit family and I live a half a mile away from the house I grew up in , and my husband and I have lived in this house since we were married .
Maybe because I really have n't done a lot of traveling .
Even my friends that are singer/songwriters , they get in a Geo Prism and they tour the country .
They 're gone for two weeks at a time and three weeks at a time , then they come back .
And I 've never really done that , even as a singer/songwriter , because of the kids .
I 've gone out two days , tops , and things like that .
So maybe it 's just from the lack of travel .
You know , it 's easy to sort of take on the idea of somebody who 's standing next to you at a soccer game in the morning watching your kids play soccer , and sort of just pick up little things from people when they talk about their lives and things .
And maybe it 's just because mine has n't been all that adventurous , I just sort of like to pick out things in other people 's lives . ''
In talking about the line `` so no one would sing some Bible song over me , '' McKenna says , `` I do n't really know where I got that line .
I might have actually read that or heard it .
It 's like a welfare listing called a charity list and things like that .
It 's like I might have heard the term , but you know , obviously , just like a hymn .
I 'm not very good at knowing anything about the Catholic religion , even though I 've been born and raised into it .
But it 's the idea of being somewhere like a funeral service and someone singing ` Ave Maria ' or some sort of gospel tune of any sort , whatever sort of one sits in your head .
I felt like if you put a specific song in there it 's going to make some people think , and then if you just put the general term in there , maybe it 'll make a lot more people think of what you 're talking about . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Lori McKenna . -RRB-
Stoughton , Massachusetts is a small town by big city standards .
It 's the place singer/songwriter Lori McKenna calls home - and always has .
`` It 's not a little town .
It 's funny , it seems like a little town , but we have like 30,000 people living here , which I do n't think is considered a little town .
I 'm not sure , though .
Some people say , ` Oh , I grew up in a town of 1,500 people . '
So I guess we 're not so little .
And lot of people stay in this town .
My husband and I both grew up here and a lot of our friends from high school still live here .
So we know all the police officers and all the firefighters , and it just seems like a small town , I guess , because of that , you know ?
Maybe it 's a Northeast thing , I do n't know , because I 've never lived anywhere else .
But yeah , it 's kind of a strange thing .
Even my friends that went away and went to great colleges and got great jobs , a lot of them have found their way back home .
It 's strange .
`` Although this song is about getting away from the small-town atmosphere , McKenna says , `` It 's just basically about what I did n't do .
It 's sort of the opposite of how I feel , in a way . ''
