This opens with a bit of Classical music by Chopin .
Keys studied artists like Chopin , Beethoven , and Mozart when she played the piano growing up -LRB- she was born Alicia Augello-Cook , but took the stage name Keys because of the piano imagery -RRB- .
Unlike modern samples , Classical music is fair game for reinterpretation , and can be used without paying for it .
Since it is hundreds of years old , there is no one who can claim rights to the music and collect publishing/songwriting royalties .
Keys performed this on Oprah before the album was released .
Clive Davis , who signed her to his record label , wrote Oprah a personal letter to get her on .
Keys signed with Columbia Records right out of high school , and was with them for 4 years without releasing an album .
Clive Davis signed her away to his J Records and released Songs In A minor , her first album .
Keys chose the album title because she likes playing piano in minor key and her first name starts with A. Clive Davis had Keys perform this at his Grammy party , which was attended by lots of industry bigwigs .
This led to an appearance on Jay Leno , which got her a great deal of publicity .
On the strength of this single , the album Songs In A minor sold over 10 million copies worldwide .
It was a good time for album sales , as digital distribution -LRB- legal and otherwise -RRB- encouraged single song downloads over the next few years .
The video shows Keys waiting for her man who is in jail .
It was released after her appearances on Leno and Oprah The scenes showing Key visiting her incarcerated boyfriend complimented the song 's ruminations on the pain of love .
They were inspired by the case of Santra Rucker , who was sentenced to 13 consecutive life sentences for conspiracy to sell drugs because her boyfriend was a dealer .
The story struck home with Keys , who became a pen pal with the imprisoned Rucker and she told The Guardian , `` I wanted to show the realism behind love ... I know people who 've gone to jail .
It do n't mean you stop loving them .
It could be me in there . ''
This won the 2001 Grammys for Song Of The Year , Best Female R&B Vocal Performance , and Best R&B Song .
Keys performed this on the show and also won awards for Best New Artist and Best R&B Album .
This was the first single from Keys , who was 20 years old at the time .
Despite the backing of Clive Davis , it was feared that the song would n't get playlisted .
However , it went on to become one of the best-selling singles of 2001 and Keys later reflected to Entertainment Weekly : '' There were so many people who did n't believe in it , because it went so much against the state of radio at the time .
And just the journey of writing it - about how when you love someone but you 're in and out , the struggle ... When I sing it , I remember the years and years it took to get to a place where people would hear it , and I 'm just so grateful . ''
The success of this song led to great anticipation for the album , which debuted at # 1 and stayed there for 3 weeks , even beating out P. Diddy 's album .
This is about the emotions that occur when you care very deeply for a person .
Keys used her mother , who she loves very much but drives her crazy at times , for inspiration .
This won the 2001 MTV Video Music Award for Best New Artist In A Video .
Keys performed this on the show , opening with a piano piece by Beethoven .
Keys performed this on the 2001 season premiere of Saturday Night Live .
Keys performed a version of this with Elmo on Sesame Street called `` Dancin ' . ''
