When it came time to record Shake !
Shake !
Shake !
, producer Chad Copelin and the band retreated to the dirt roads and country atmosphere of Copelin 's abode in Norman , Oklahoma where Blackwatch Studios makes its home .
Deemed an `` inviting and artistic space fostering creativity , innovation and inspiration , '' lead singer Chris Henderson gave a nod towards the locals of Norman and the good ol' type of sound the area lent the band 's music-making experience .
`` Most of the instruments played on this record were lent to us from the community , '' says Henderson .
In terms of a song becoming a hit , the old saying , `` save the best for last , '' seems to ring true for BRR 's track `` Shake , Shake , Shake . ''
`` During the several weeks we spent in Oklahoma recording the album , we kept circling around this song .
We would try a guitar line or a key 's texture and nothing was sitting right .
Everything sounded unnatural .
When we started nearing the end of our time in the studio , we noticed that we still had a lot of work to do in order to finish the song `` Shake !
Shake !
Shake !
, '' Henderson told us .
`` After a few long , late night sessions of really focusing on the tune , we came up with something we all liked on the last day .
It ended up being the title track of the record . ''
Perhaps the underlying desire here is to reinvigorate a generation of people who seem to have forgotten how to dance -- or at least do n't embrace it like generations past .
`` There 's always this moment near the beginning of a set where everybody is standing around .
It just takes one outgoing dude , or a tipsy couple , and they just start moving .
You can see two or three more people going , and then as the set progresses , more and more people start to move . ''
Henderson himself even admits , `` I will almost never be the first person to dance in a crowd , but I always admire the people who have the courage to start before anyone else does . ''
The song seems to genuinely spread a be-satisfied-with-living quality which , in conjunction with the right setting , gets people moving .
-LRB- Here 's our full Chris Henderson interview . -RRB-
Lead singer Chris Henderson holds strong that the band is not selling out by licensing their tunes for commercial opportunities .
In reference to the Nissan Leaf commercial where this song was featured , he stated , `` We were excited to be a part of the campaign .
Our band does n't have the mindset of selling out ; we look at using your stuff for commercials as an opportunity to get our music out there and get new fans . ''
Songs on Shake !
Shake !
Shake !
have been licensed by American Eagle , Hollister , Anthony Bourdain 's Travel Channel Show The Layover , HBO 's 24/7 Flyers/Rangers Road to the NHL Winter Classic , CW 's Heart of Dixie , American Idol , and Polo Ralph Lauren .
