On November 22 , 1963 , Lee Harvey Oswald , a small man with big ambitions and a bizarre past , assassinated the President of the United States in spectacular fashion at Dealey Plaza , Dallas .
Shortly , Oswald was arrested , not for killing John F. Kennedy but for the murder of a police officer .
In the UK , that would have been the end of the story until his trial , but they do things differently in Texas .
Oswald was paraded in front of the press where his immortal words `` I 'm just a patsy '' have been taken at face value by generations of gullible conspiracy mongers.On November 24 , as Oswald was about to be transferred to the county jail , Jack Ruby walked into the basement of Dallas Police Headquarters and shot him in the stomach at close range .
Two hours later , Oswald was dead .
Like Oswald 's own handiwork , the murder was captured on film for posterity.The shots from Oswald 's rifle rang out at 12:30 pm but Saxon can be forgiven for using poetic license to write `` Dallas 1pm '' .
Most of the rubbish that has been written about the Kennedy Assassination has no such mitigation ; almost as much outrageous nonsense has been written about Ruby as about Oswald .
Fortunately , that does not extend to this song , which is right on the money.According to Michael Heatley 's book , The Complete Deep Purple , `` Jack Ruby '' started off with a riff in 6/4 time from Messrs Glover and Paice ; they began writing it just after the 1980s reunion .
Credited words and music to Gillan/Glover/Lord / Morse/Paice and running to 3 minutes 47 seconds , the guys did their homework .
Jack Ruby has been described as a wannabe/never was , but he was also his own man , and the sort of hothead who could gun down a man over a grudge .
He may have been a club owner with a shady past , but he adored the President , as did many people.Ruby was arrested , tried , convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald , but his conviction was overturned on technical grounds .
A retrial was ordered for February 1967 , but before it could take place , he was diagnosed with lung cancer that had metastatized to his liver and brain .
He died January 3 , 1967 .
If Ruby is to be remembered for one thing it should not be for the death of an assassin but for the birth of an industry .
As of November 2012 , the British Library held over 200 books dedicated to the Kennedy Assassination .
But for Jack Ruby 's fiery outburst 49 years earlier , most of them would not have been written .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB-
