This is a track from American rock band ZZ Top 's fifteenth album , La Futura , which was co-produced by vocalist Billy Gibbons and knob-twiddling legend Rick Rubin : The song was penned by Gibbons with American rock , country , and blues musician Tom Hambridge .
`` That was the second composition that came out of the collaboration with Tom Hambridge , '' Gibbons recalled to MusicRadar.com .
`` I went back to Malibu with Rick during the final two weeks of review .
He and I both liked it .
It was sitting there and Rick did n't want to let it go -- he liked it , but he could n't figure out what it needed.We were in the control room , '' he continued , `` we played it and played it , and suddenly I stumbled upon the lead line , ' I do n't want to lose you . '
Instantly , we retitled it .
I took a few minutes and rewrote the lyrics , and there you have it.It was funny , though , because I had to call my buddy Tom , who by this time was in Chicago .
` Well , I trashed another one of our songs , Tom ! '
-LSB- laughs -RSB- And he said , ` Hey , if you trashed if like you did the other one , you 've got my blessing . ' ''
Gibbons ' guitar solo was inspired by a British legend : `` Before cutting the solo , I had been listening to Keith Richards , '' he told MusicRadar .
`` I talked to him , and we were discussing songs that left him in mysteryland .
One was a song originally done by Bo Diddley called ` Crackin ' Up . '
The Stones ' version is great , but Keith was talking about the eight bars , how Bo gets the guitar upside down and backwards and then magically gets out of it .
Keith said , ` It 's one of those happy accidents .
I 've been trying to do that for 40 years .
` Two Stones songs have done that to me , '' he continued .
`` There 's ` Start Me Up ' -- it 's very difficult to find the downbeat in the intro until they finally kick it in -- and the other one is a Keith solo song called ` Take It So Hard .
Man , ' it 's so riveting !
So it was a Keith Richards-inspired day of soloing , which means ... it just happened ! ''
