This tender ballad was the song that kickstarted Rod Stewart 's Time album , his first record containing his own original songs in 15 years .
Rod recalled to The Guardian that he only started writing again after a visit from his friend Jim Cregan to his mansion in Essex , England .
`` He comes round for Sunday dinner when I 'm in the country and always brings his guitar , '' the star recalled .
`` I watch him come up the drive and ... ` Oh , fu -- ng hell , he 's brought his guitar again . '
He 's always pushing me to write a song .
So he says : ` Come on , siddown , let 's have a go . '
I said : ` No , I wan na have a little lie down .
Just had Sunday dinner . '
So he said : ` Come on , have a little go . '
So I started singing , and he took it home , worked on the track a little bit , added a couple more guitars , and that was Brighton Beach .
`` Former Family and Cockney Rebel guitarist Jim Cregan joined Rod Stewart 's band in 1977 and became his musical director , co-producer and co-writer .
Cregan co-penned many hits with Stewart , including `` Passion '' , `` Tonight I 'm Yours -LRB- Do n't Hurt Me -RRB- '' , and '' Forever Young . ''
According to Rod , Susannah ca n't stand him but he and their girl Sarah have now started calling each other father and daughter .
`` Quite rightly , she has a chip on her shoulder , '' he told Mojo magazine , '' ` f -- , just my luck , seven other kids and I 'm the one born out of wedlock , so I had no money . '
But we e-mail each other and I take her out to dinner .
We 're getting there . ''
The semi-autobiographical ballad finds Stewart , reflecting on his weekend beatnik days as a teenager , hanging out under Brighton pier with his girlfriend , London art student Suzannah Boffey .
Stewart told The Daily Telegraph their affair was `` the first time I ever fell in love . ''
Suzannah became pregnant , but neither Rod nor his family wanted him to enter marriage .
The baby girl was given for adoption immediately after her birth but has subsequently become a part of Stewart 's extended family .
