This was originally recorded in 2006 by the Liverpool group The Zutons , peaking at # 9 in the UK .
In an interview with The Zutons , their drummer Sean Payne revealed that the song was written about a friend of their lead singer Dave McCabe who got caught drink-driving : `` She 's in trouble for drink driving .
She was a friend Dave met over in the US .
It 's his musical postcard to her , saying he 's having a hard time and can she come over and see him .
He did n't mean it , it just made a good song . ''
When they recorded this cover , Ronson realized he needed to add strings to the track , but Amy Winehouse was n't having it .
Ronson knew the strings needed to appear but he was n't going to fight with his guest singer .
The British producer admitted to Remix magazine : `` Basically , I kinda had to go behind her back to put the strings on the record . ''
The Daily Star reported : `` Dave -LRB- McCabe -RRB- put a deposit down on a lovely big house in Liverpool with the royalties from the track .
He 's been really chuffed and has been telling all his mates about the property .
Initially it was strange for him and the band hearing one of their favorite songs done by someone else , but now they love Mark and Amy 's version and are hoping it 's a big hit in America . ''
Dave McCabe told Scotland on Sunday May 11 , 2008 : `` I could tell you I was inspired by gazing out across the Mersey or walking past Macca 's old house , but the truth is I got the idea in a cab on the way to my mum 's .
The whole song was written before I got there , so 20 minutes , max . ''
Amy Winehouse is a featured vocalist on this song .
After working with Winehouse on her Back To Black album , the English music producer Mark Ronson recorded Version , an album of cover songs which were mostly guitar tunes reworked as '60s & '70s Soul numbers .
`` Valerie '' was one of the songs Ronson covered and he told Liverpool magazine how he originally came across this song : `` I 'm glad it was a Liverpool song .
I think Liverpool has the best musical history of , well , of anywhere in the world .
But I have to admit I did n't know the song all that well before we did it .
At the time I 'd just finished Amy 's album , and I 'd almost finished mine and I really wanted her to do a song for me .
I kept asking her if she knew any new songs .
I explained that it was Soul covers of guitar records .
She only listens to things made before 1967 , she did n't know any indie songs .
Then one day she came up and said ' I like Valerie by the Zutons . '
At the time I could n't hear her voice singing it in my head .
I was n't sure how it would work , but she went into the studio and tried it .
I loved it . ''
Pritchard was also asked if the band expected Ronson 's cover to be a hit .
He replied : `` Because we 'd had a big hit with it , she -LRB- Amy Winehouse -RRB- was so notorious at the time and he was also on the up , we kinda thought it would be a smash .
The way the world works is that if she 's absolutely everywhere in the media , and if she has a song that 's catchy too , then everyone 's happy .
It 's good and it 's funny - nobody had covered one of our songs before . ''
An alternative acoustic version recorded by Winehouse for the Radio One Live Lounge was included on several versions of the single release of Back To Black .
Later in 2007 this version entered the UK charts as it was the only hit registered by an iTunes search for `` Amy Winehouse Valerie . ''
-LRB- There was no mention of the guest singer 's name on Mark Ronson 's version . -RRB-
A few weeks later there was a surge of sales when it was included on a new `` Platinum Edition '' of Winehouse 's Back To Black album .
As a result , the British singer became the second act in 2007 to reach the UK Top 40 with two different recordings of the same song .
The Proclaimers achieved the same feat earlier in the year with both the 2007 Comic Relief and original 1988 versions of `` I 'm Gon na Be -LRB- 500 Miles -RRB- . ''
The Zutons bass guitarist Russell Pritchard was asked by Digital Spy if the band expected Ronson 's cover to be a hit .
He replied : `` I would n't say we 're fans , but we do n't hate it .
It 's not a bad thing - he 's just stuck the beat from The Jam 's ` Town Called Malice ' behind it .
I quite like it .
It proves how catchy the song is that it can be played in two very different ways and still be a hit .
It shows that we 're good at songwriting , or at least that we can be . ''
`` Valerie '' charted in the US for the first time in December 2010 when a version by the Glee Cast debuted at # 54 on the Hot 100 after featuring in the Fox TV show .
