Swift sings of the conflicted emotions of being aged 22 on this collaboration with Swedish producers Max Martin and Shellback .
She told Billboard magazine : `` For me , being 22 has been my favorite year of my life .
I like all the possibilities of how you 're still learning , but you know enough .
You still know nothing , but you know that you know nothing .
You 're old enough to start planning your life , but you 're young enough to know there are so many unanswered questions .
That brings about a carefree feeling that is sort of based on indecision and fear and a the same time letting lose .
Being 22 has taught me so much . ''
The song 's music video sees Taylor hanging out poolside on a beach with her friends , including former Gossip Girl actress Jessica Szohr .
The clip was directed by Anthony Mandler , who previously helmed Swift 's `` I Knew You Were Trouble '' visual .
`` It was shot last month in Malibu and I 've never had this much fun shooting a video , because my friends in the video are actually my real life best friends , '' Taylor told Good Morning America when she premiered the video on March 13 , 2013 .
The song featured in a Diet Coke ad , in which we see Taylor jotting down the song 's lyrics as fans sing along to the tune .
The message being that Diet Coke helps Taylor , `` Stay Extraordinary . ''
Taylor told Ryan Seacrest the inspiration for the song : `` I wrote that about my friends , '' she said , `` like finally I 've got this amazing group of girlfriends and we tell each other everything , we 're together all the time .
And I think that was kind of the marker of me being 22 , like having all these friends and there 's all these question marks in your life , but the one thing that you have is that you have each other . ''
This was the second numerically titled Swift song to chart on the Hot 100 having previously sent `` Fifteen '' to # 23 in 2009 .
Swift dedicated the song to two of her close friends , actress Dianna Agron and singer/actress Selena Gomez .
