In this song , the singer finds herself alone in a hot city , as her boyfriend has left .
For her , it 's a cruel summer .
Like most tracks on the album , the song was written by the the three group members - Sarah Dallin , Siobhan Fahey and Keren Woodward - and their producers , Steve Jolley and Tony Swain .
In 1989 , this was released as `` Cruel Summer ' 89 '' with a Hip Hop beat .
This version hit UK # 19 .
Ace of Base recorded a cover version in 1998 that hit # 8 in the UK and # 10 in the US .
It was the last big US hit for the Swedish Pop group .
Dallin recalled to The Guardian : `` It was a huge hit in the US .
I 'll always remember coming out of our hotel in LA when we first became famous and seeing Mike Tyson sitting there .
He burst into Cruel Summer when he saw us .
It was unbelievable .
Summer songs do that to people .
When the sun 's out , anything goes . ''
In addition to The Karate Kid , this song also appeared in the movies Fraternity Vacation -LRB- 1985 -RRB- and Romy and Michele 's High School Reunion -LRB- 1997 -RRB- , as well as the `` K.I.T.T. vs. K.A.R.R. '' episode of the TV show Knight Rider .
This did well when it was released in England in 1983 , but it was n't a hit in the US until 1984 , when it was used in the movie The Karate Kid .
The group had four Top-10 UK hits to that point , but `` Cruel Summer '' was their first to make an impact in America .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Blestenation did a Rap mix off of this song with the singer Diana that was featured on the movie Blue Crush and appears on its soundtrack .
-LRB- thanks , Nessie - Danville , VA -RRB- From the Beach Boys ' `` Surfin ' U.S.A. '' to Mungo Jerry 's `` In the Summertime , '' certain songs work best in the summer .
Sara Dallin of Bananarama told The Guardian July 22 , 2009 : `` The best summer songs remind you of your youth : what you did in your holidays , how it felt when you first kissed a boy , going away without your parents . ''
She added that this song , `` played on the darker side : it looked at the oppressive heat , the misery of wanting to be with someone as the summer ticked by .
We 've all been there ! ''
Directed by Brian Simmons , the video was shot in New York City , primarily because the group had never been there and wanted to go .
They used a tavern in Brooklyn as their base camp , which is where they first discovered cocaine .
Siobhan Fahey recalls in the book I Want My MTV : `` When we repaired to the tavern for lunch , we met a bunch of dockworkers .
They were intrigued by us and started chatting , and they all had these little vials of coke .
I 'd never done coke - I was aware of its existence , but I did n't know anybody who could afford it .
We were exhausted and they gave us very generous bumps .
That was our lunch .
When you watch that video , we look really tired and miserable in the scenes we shot before lunch , and then the after-lunch shots are all euphoric and manic . ''
