Long before Taylor Swift turned her ex-boyfriends into song lyrics , Fiona Apple did it on this track , where she sends a message to all her ex-lovers .
`` You were always good for a rhyme , '' she sings , knowing she could at least count on some song material from the experience .
This is the only song from the Extraordinary Machine album that was not leaked onto the internet in 2005 , months before it was officially issued .
That 's because the song was a late addition to the album.Extraordinary Machine was scheduled for release in 2003 , but it got bogged down when the songs just did n't gel .
Producing the album was Jon Brion , who did Fiona 's previous album , When The Pawn ... -LRB- 1999 -RRB- .
When it comes to writing songs and performing on her albums , Apple is intimately involved , but at the time she generally stayed out of the production process , trusting her crew to do the job .
This worked for her first two albums , but on this one , it created a negative feedback loop where she would keep sending back the tracks for refinement , never happy with how they came out -LRB- the two exceptions : the title track and `` Waltz -LRB- Better Than Fine -RRB- '' -RRB- .
After two years , Brion moved on and Mike Elizondo took over as producer , but they still could n't finish the album .
It finally came together when Brian Kehew , a producer who played on Fiona 's previous album and was Brion 's roommate , offered to start fresh on the unfinished tracks , recording them at his home studio with no record company intervention .
Fiona took the deal , and after a month , they had the tracks done .
This song was exceptional because it was a new one Fiona brought to the sessions , and was done very quickly .
When Fiona came in with the song and offered to play it for the crew , Kehew instead set up microphones and had her record it , figuring they would at least get a version to work from that way .
`` She played it once and we recorded it and then we all said , ` That 's it .
The song 's done .
No more need for Take 2 , ' '' Kehew said in our interview .
`` And it is on the record that way . ''
-LRB- Here 's Brian 's full account of making Extraordinary Machine . -RRB-
