Keith Green wrote this song alongside songwriters , Randy Stonehill and Todd Fishkind .
It is about finding a sense of meaning through God .
During our interview , Stonehill told us `` this is one of the songs that just makes you smile and look up at heaven , because it 's one that just seems to have God 's fingerprints on it .
And the story really speaks to that . ''
This song made a lasting impression on the Christian music scene and Stonehill believes Green spoke prophetically when he anticipated it 's success : `` Because he told me on the phone before I ever started working on the song , he said , ` Randy , God is going to do mighty things with this song , and it 's going to go all around the world . '
And after we wrote it and then he did the first recording of it , we watched in delight and in amazement as God did take it all around the world .
It became a Top Ten hit in Australia , it opened ministry doors for me all the way down to the bottom of the world .
It was recorded again and again down through the years over and over by various artists and it 's still being re-recorded to this day .
I 'm convinced that was not because Keith and I were so talented or cool , but I really do believe that God in his largesse allowed two young Christians to frame in music that pivotal moment in a person 's journey when the wind of the spirit comes blowing in and God 's love breaks through . ''
Stonehill told us the story behind this track , including Keith Green 's enthusiastic approach to writing : `` Keith called me up in the middle of a busy afternoon in 1976 .
He said , ` Randy , Todd Fishkind came over to do some co-writing , and he played me the most beautiful chorus melody I think I have ever heard . '
... And Keith said , ` Randy , you 've got to come over right now , because I 'm working on the verse melody , but God told me ' - I started laughing to myself , it 's like how are you going to argue with that ?
- ` God told me you 're the guy that 's going to write the lyrics .
He 's going to do mighty things with it .
It 's going to go all around the world . '
And now he 's shouting on the phone , I 'm holding the phone back and reaching for my aspirin .
Oh my gosh , this guy is like a force of nature . ''
Stonehill continued : `` So I got in the car , I drove to the house , and as I pulled up into the driveway you could hear the music wafting out onto the front lawn .
Which is interesting , because his music room is all the way at the back of the house .
But he was wailing and flailing , and it was so intense that you could hear the music even if you were standing on the front lawn .
So I walked up to the porch , and Melody -LSB- Green -RSB- opened the screen door , and she had this kind of sweet , bemused look on her face .
She hugged me hello and she pointed down the hall , and she said , ` He 's waaaiiittting . '
We loved him , but he was so unique and he could be like a bull in a china shop .
He was like a hurricane you almost had to brace yourself for . ''
Having heard Green play the melody , Stonehill came up with the lyrics to the song : `` I said , ` All right , what about this ?
-LRB- singing -RRB- ` Like a foolish dreamer trying to build a highway to the sky , '' his arms shot up in the air and he went , ` Yeeess !
Praise God !
See ?
I knew you were the guy ! '
... I ended up writing most of the lyrics to that song that afternoon ; he just trapped me in the music room for about three hours , I could n't even go to the bathroom .
He 'd just go , ` No , no , no , come on , you 're on it , you 're on it .
How 's the second verse go ? '
And he 's throwing a line or two from time to time , but basically he was just staring at me with a yellow legal pad and a pen , and a big smile on his face . ''
This features on Keith Green 's debut album , For Him Who Has Ears to Hear , which was released in 1977 .
The album ranks at # 5 on CCM Magazine 's 100 Greatest Albums in Christian Music .
