This rock ballad is the fourth single from the Scottish band Biffy Clyro 's fifth studio album , Only Revolutions .
The album track was re-worked for its radio and single release under the alternate title of `` Many of Horror -LRB- When We Collide -RRB- . ''
For the song 's music video , the band teamed up with director Andy Morahan for their third clip in succession .
The video is set within Battersea Power Station where the band play the song as Simon Neil desperately tries to keep his dark side at bay .
The album was named after the L.A.-based author Mark Danielewski 's novel Only Revolutions .
Neil explained why in an interview with Spin magazine : `` I first became aware of Mark in about 2002 when somebody passed me a copy of House of Leaves .
I had never really read a book quite like it .
It really kind of grabbed my life in a way that other books had n't and it kind of dominated my life - I kept re-reading it , you know , which is unusual for me with books .
After we completed all our songs for our first record , I was in Mexico with my wife and I read Only Revolutions for the second time .
It 's a love story told from two people 's point of view , and I felt like the songs we were writing were about myself and my wife , and how when you 're in love with someone you can still hate them more than anyone else in the world , you can just have completely different points of view .
I was reading that book and I just thought our album has to be called this . ''
On the iTunes Track by Track video , singer Simon Neil explained : `` The whole record is a bit about my whole relationship with my wife and family and this song optimizes that more than any other . ''
A cover of this song re-titled `` When We Collide '' was the debut single by the 2010 X Factor winner Matt Cardle .
In an interview with Australian radio station Undercover FM , drummer Ben Johnston said that their song must have been discovered by svengali Simon Cowell .
`` Britain 's a small place .
Everybody knows everybody , certainly in something like the music industry .
He -LSB- Cowell -RSB- said it was a great song and he -LSB- Cardle -RSB- should use it .
`` The use of this song for the X Factor single prompted a surge of interest in Biffy Clyro 's original and it stormed into the UK Top 10 for the first time in the week after the show 's final .
` Horror ' originally peaked at # 20 in January 2010 .
