`` Brave as a Noun '' follows the foot stomping opening of Andrew Jackson Jihad 's first full length album , People That Can Eat People are the Luckiest People in the World .
The song consists of several terse , wailed verses that enumerate the pitfalls of artists in the world in particular and the human race in general .
The themes of the song are bitterly hollered by Sean Bonnette , the band 's primary vocalist in the first verse as he screams , `` I 've got an angry heart / ... if this is how you folks make art / its f -- king depressing . ''
Bonnette , who is also the lyricist of the band -LRB- with upright bass player Ben Gallant handling most of the production and some vocals as well -RRB- volunteered at a suicide prevention hotline for teenagers for eight years , and worked with homeless men and women in the Phoenix , Arizona area .
These experiences gave him a sometimes bleak , but at moments , hopeful outlook on life , often reflected in the band 's lyrics .
In fact , what often comes through most clearly , on this track and on others , is that Andrew Jackson Jihad is enamored with humanity .
Undercutting the apparent sadness of the song are the sentiments , `` we 're not alone in this '' and the finishing thought , `` we can conquer anything . ''
This song is practically a road map for People That Can Eat People are the Luckiest People in the World , laying out major themes to be explored throughout the album .
Andrew Jackson Jihad is a folk punk band , sometimes characterized as `` gloomy '' from Phoenix , Arizona .
The band members , Sean Bonnette and Sean Gallant , cite numerous and eclectic musical influences that have synergized to create the sound of Andrew Jackson Jihad .
Their diverse taste in music is reflected in the inclusion of various instruments and an alternating line-up of musicians in the band 's canon .
The band has released numerous EPs and LP records that demonstrate a love for and adherence to the DIY aesthetic , which you can read more about in our interview with Chris Clavin .
Andrew Jackson Jihad albums have been released on Plan-It-X and Asian Man Records .
