After completing his touring schedule with Crossfade at the end of 2007 , Ed Sloan , the vocalist of the South Carolina melodic-rockers , arrived home in a funk .
He told us : `` I kind of lost my way a little bit .
Music turned its back on me a little bit , or I turned my back on music .
I got tired , I did n't want to do it , because the industry was down and we left our label .
I did n't know what we were going to do .
So for like a year I did n't use music as my outlet .
I just kind of stayed by myself and loathed my own misery . ''
The following year , Crossfade were dropped by their record label , leaving their frontman devastated and the band inactive throughout 2008 .
Sloan eventually realized that he had to pull himself out of his depression and let everybody know that he was still the same person he used to be .
`` Prove You Wrong '' came out of this realization .
Said Sloan : `` I finally got out of my funk and realized that I was bringing a lot of people down , so I decided I 'd write a song about it and let everybody know that I was going to prove them wrong and that everything 's going to be all right in the end . ''
Sloan credits his guitarist for changing the musical direction of the song .
He said in our interview : `` I did n't know what direction to go writing-wise and I wrote this song that at first was a little upbeat and pop-y , and I presented it to Les -LRB- Hall -RRB- , our new guitarist .
He 's new any more , but at the time he was fairly new .
And he was like , ` Man , it 's a great song .
But we 're a rock band .
Let me turn this into something . '
So he put a lot of instrumentation in the background , turned it into musically what it is today . ''
Sloan penned the song as both an ode to himself after losing his way and a message to the critics who doubted Crossfade would ever return after being dropped by Columbia Records .
He introduced the track with a sincere letter to the band 's fans explaining his struggles .
Hall told Audio Ink Radio how he changed the musical direction of the song : `` Musically , it was a completely different song for us , '' he explained .
`` Eddie had the verse and chorus down , and it was n't my favorite piece , so when he went out of town , I stole the vocals and put them in a different program and programmed all the electronics around them .
I think it 's definitely one of the standout tracks on the record . ''
