This is the second single from Barbadian singer Rihanna 's fourth studio album , Rated R .
The song features Young Jeezy .
Dream told MTV News that the American rapper delivered on his verse : `` Oh , c'mon , he killed it !
You know Young killed it , '' Dream smiled .
`` That 's ATL right there .
That 's all we do . ''
Rihanna explained to MTV News why she hooked up with Young Jeezy for this track .
She said : `` When I first heard the song , I was in Paris .
Dream and Tricky , they flew out and played me the record .
They played me a few -LSB- songs -RSB- , but this one stuck out to me .
It had such an arrogance to it , which is so far from who I am ... which is part of why I wanted to do it .
It was fun .
It was bragging .
A lot of attitude .
Young Jeezy was the perfect person for the topic of the song .
Just the vibe of the song .
I love , love , love his verse .
He added so much more to the record . ''
The song 's music video was shot in Los Angeles with director Melina Matsoukas .
Rihanna explained to MTV News its concept : `` It 's couture military .
Everything is surrounded around the idea of something military .
We have tanks , we have troops , we 've got helicopters , we 've got explosions .
We 've got lots of cute outfits , lots of bullets .
It 's crazy . ''
The-Dream , who co-wrote `` Umbrella , '' penned a few tracks for Rated R including this number .
He told MTV News : '' ` Hard , ' I want that song to explain itself .
Most of the stuff I wrote - still to this day what I write - I try to find out through people - what they 're going through or what they got ta say .
Then we put that in . ''
The Dream co-produced the track with his music partner Tricky Stewart .
When The-Dream and Tricky Stewart first played Rihanna this song they thought it would have too much of an attitude for her tastes .
However Rihanna explained to MTV News it was exactly what she had in mind .
`` Funny enough , when I first heard the song , we were in Paris - they flew out there to play me some songs they had done for me , some ideas .
And before they played ` Hard , ' they were like , ` We 're gon na play you the ghetto one first , and you have to do it , you have to do it , '' Rihanna laughed .
`` They thought I would n't like it , and when I heard it , I just loved it .
It had such an attitude and a swagger ... super cocky , and just a fun song . ''
This won BET 's 2010 Viewers Choice Award , at the cable television network 's annual salute to R&B and hip-hop stars .
