On this song Drake raps about his fast ascent to the top of his game and promises to never let fame change him , while Jay-Z gives him some words of advice .
`` It 's just me and Jay both rapping on it for an extended period of time , '' Drake told MTV News .
`` It 's real rap .
I do sing on it , but it 's just on the hook - but it 's rap .
It 's great .
The perspective , the dynamic on the track - it 's me and Jay 's relationship on the song , basically .
When you hear it , people will be like , ` Oh man . '
That 's how we are - just the two .
He definitely has guided me a lot , as far as his words and his advice .
We have a real funny rapport .
I always enjoy my conversations with Jay .
It 's good . ''
Drake explained the collaboration to MTV News ; '' ` Light Up ' really came from , Jay had a busy year , obviously , with The Blueprint 3 and the success of that and the tour .
So we did n't do it in the same room .
But me and Jay have a lot of great conversations , man .
So it would never just be like , ` I 'm gon na send you something , and we 're not gon na talk about it , and you send it back .
We really talked about it.And Jay 's joint on the album is so important on the album , because it 's another turning point .
Whereas `` Over '' is a turning point for me , ` Light Up , ' I think it 's one of my favorite Jay verses .
Jay not only gave me a great verse , but a life lesson .
And I think he 's gon na give everybody a life lesson just about this business .
It 's incredible . ''
The main version features just Drake and Jay-Z , but a re-mix of the song was done featuring a verse by the incarcerated Lil Wayne .
The Cash Money Records superstar 's freestyle rhyme was recorded over the prison phone .
The song was produced by Drake 's fellow Toronto based hip-hop and R&B production team Tone Mason and co-produced by another Toronto cohort Noah `` 40 '' Shebib .
The Canadian rapper explained to MTV News how it came to fruition : `` When I heard that beat , the drums that they had come up with , it was like , ` Man , this is a moment , ' '' he said .
`` This sounds like where I 'm at in my life . '
So , we took it and 40 did what he does to pieces of music that I see potential in - he took it to the next spot .
Jay-Z 's on it .
The song is phenomenal .
It 's done now . ''
This is not the first collaboration between Drake and Jay-Z .
The pair previously worked together on Jay-Z 's 2009 track `` Off That . ''
That song , however , only featured Drake on the hook instead of contributing a verse alongside Hov .
In an interview with MTV2 's Sucker Free , Drake revealed that he originally used the verse on a collaboration with Kanye West protégé Big Sean when the words were more aggressive .
`` My verse was way harder on ` Light Up ' before , '' The Toronto MC explained .
`` I had done a song , and nothing was supposed to happen with it , and it leaked .
The bars from the song were so hard , it was a song with Big Sean -LSB- ` Made It ' -RSB- .
There were some bars on the song that fit better with ` Light Up ' and made so much more sense .
And the last night before mastering , I had to go in and switch the first 12 bars .
On ` Light Up , ' I lost my footing a bit , and Jay came in and killed me . ''
