Jason Pierce of Spiritualized told the Sun newspaper May 23 , 2008 : `` Death Take Your Fiddle is about being close to death in the same way that ` Ladies And Gentlemen We Are Floating In Space ' was about floating in space .
If you understand life is n't worth living unless you are close to death , it makes sense of life .
And the closer you get to it , the more you realize that . ''
The album contains a number of sonic references to this near-death experience such as the breathing sound on this track .
The use of breathing was done by means of an accordion without the keys being pressed .
Pierce has denied in interviews that the album was inspired by a spell in intensive care he experienced after a bout of double pneumonia , but its title , Songs in A&E , appear to contradict him .
He explained to the London Times May 16 , 2008 : `` The songs were written before it happened .
Although when I returned to them over a year later I was trying to capture that low-level atmosphere you find in hospitals .
You get this sense that if people were given a chance they 'd all run around with their arms in the air , screaming : ` We 're in trouble ! '
But there is a lid on it ; the atmosphere is held down by the fact that everything is supposed to be calm and clean . ''
The album sleeve features photography by Anton Corbijn , who also did the photography for Annie Lennox 's Diva album and directed the video 's for U2 's `` One '' and The Killers ' `` Andy , You 're A Star . ''
The sleeve 's photography features catheters and various other hospital accouterments .
Pierce explained the thinking behind it to the Observer Music Monthly March 2008 : `` The decision to use the little plastic catheters that connect the IV drip to your vein was because they kind of looked like crosses .
They are so small and simple that people do n't really place much importance on them .
For some people , though , these small , simple things are the most important things in the world .
They save lives . ''
