Scotty McCreery 's second single finds the Season 10 American Idol champ singing about the number one preoccupation for most teenagers : girls .
He croons , `` They smile that smile / They bat those eyes / They steal you with hello / They kill you with goodbye / They hook you with one touch / And you ca n't break free / Yeah , the trouble with girls / Is nobody loves trouble as much as me . ''
The song was premiered on radio on August 30 , 2011 .
The song was co-written by Nashville songwriter Chris Tompkins whose credits include tunes recorded by Carrie Underwood , Martina McBride and Jimmy Buffett .
The other co-writer Phillip White has had songs recorded by the likes of Reba McEntire , Jason Aldean and Blake Shelton .
The two songwriters have known each other for a long time as they both hail from the same Alabama town .
Tompkins told The Boot about the penning of this song : `` We ran into each other this summer and got together to write .
I usually always write at my studio at -LSB- publishing company -RSB- Big Loud Shirt , so I can use my Pro Tools , but Phillip proposed that we do it at Universal .
I thought , `` That 's a good idea .
It will be old-school -- two writers with a guitar and a piano -- with no toys to play with and interrupt the creative process . ''
It was a good change from my everyday norm.The song actually started with Phillip having the title , ` The Trouble With Girls , ' and the first verse , and the spin at the end of the chorus .
I sat down at the grand piano and worked out the melody for the verse .
At that point , we did n't really have a chorus , and it felt like we needed to get somewhere big , musically , very quickly .
Then out of nowhere , I started singing the line , ` they smile that smile , ' and a second later Phillip chimed in with ` bat those eyes , ' and after that we knew we were on to something.Phillip stayed on me to go over to my spot to do a work tape .
I feel like I owe a lot to Phillip for making me get off my lazy butt to demo it quickly .
Phillip 's a great guy and a great songwriter and friend .
He knows how to reach in and pinch off a piece of your heart , and we 've always been a good pairing . ''
Scotty discussed why he chose this as the lead single from his debut album : `` I told my mom , ` If you were at home doing dishes , this is the kind of song that makes you stop what you are doing and listen to it . '
It has a haunting melody .
After I listened to the demo once , I found myself singing it in the room and going out to dinner and humming it to myself there .
When you hear that kind of song and you ca n't help but keep singing it , you know you 've got a good one . ''
The song 's music video finds Scotty returning to Garner Magnet High School .
Rather than using local actors , he chose his own classmates to play themselves in the clip .
The 17-year-old sought approval for the song from one particular girl - his sister .
`` It 's a really sweet song , '' Scotty said .
`` I played it for my sister and I said , ` Would you like to hear what 's said in this song ? '
She said , ' I would love to have a guy say some of this stuff to me . ' ''
Tompkins had one eye on getting a song onto the American Idol winner 's debut album .
He told The Boot : `` The best thing about getting this cut - and the same thing happened before Carrie cut ` Before He Cheats ' - I knew that if I were lucky enough to get an ` American Idol ' cut , this was an album I 'd love to be on .
I always thought Scotty was a frontrunner and I 'm proud to be a part of this . ''
When Scotty first announced the title of the song it surprised some of his female fans .
He explained : `` On Twitter , when I said my new single coming out tomorrow is ` The Trouble With Girls , ' all the girls were like , ` What do you mean , the trouble with girls ?
We are n't trouble . '
But when you hear it , it 's really a sweet song that talks about all of the great things about girls , like how pretty they are and how they have wonderful smiles .
It 's talks about things girls like to hear . ''
