This is a track from Leveler , the fourth studio album by American Metalcore band August Burns Red , which was released on June 21 , 2011 through Solid State Records .
The song is slower in tempo than most traditional ABR numbers .
Brubaker generally does n't write lyrics , but he had an idea for this song .
He recalled to AntiMusic : `` The idea was to write the words as a conversation between two people .
One person would be a dreamer chasing a goal .
The other person was a nay-saying realist .
I wanted Jake to sing the dreamer 's lines and have Dustin sing the nay-sayers lines .
We had never done any back and forth like that and I thought it would be a cool contrast in voices and really tell a story .
I wrote a bunch of lines for the song , but never finished the lyrics .
`` By the time the band had started recording Leveler in the studio , the lyrics for this song still were n't finished .
Brubaker told AntiMusic : `` Dustin came to me and asked if he could take a shot at finishing them as he was really into the idea of two people having a conversation within the song .
Dustin basically rewrote the entire song using my idea as a blueprint while writing from his own personal experience .
He experienced exactly what this song is talking about when trying to convince his father that he wanted to go full time with a band .
Dustin also wrote all the vocal patterns and sang quite a bit on the track . ''
The original idea for the song came to guitarist / primary songwriter JB Brubaker when he was driving to his sister 's house to meet her and his brother in law for dinner .
He recalled to AntiMusic : `` I was listening to The Hope Conspiracy 's album Death Knows Your Name and thinking how cool it 'd be to play in a band like that .
The thought of writing straight forward driving hardcore songs was very appealing to me and I began to think about trying to write a few of my own , not for ABR , but on the side .
I never really had time to do a side project , and as it would turn out , I still did n't .
`` When Brubaker got home that night he began fooling around on his guitar trying to write something more in the vain of The Hope Conspiracy .
He told Anti Music : `` I wrote the main chord progression for the song and the big build up intro .
Being that everything was fairly straightforward the song was coming together very quickly , that is until I got side tracked when I saw my glass guitar slide sitting on my desk in front of me .
I have never been very good at playing with a slide , but always thought they sounded cool so I occasionally would play around with one .
While noodling about with the slide I came up with the melody to the clean section in the middle of ` Carpe Diem . '
It was a simple slide part that kept me on only one string , which was difficult enough for me .
`` Brubaker got himself back on track working on the song he had set out to write in the first place , but he could n't get the slide guitar melody out of his head so he decided to try to work it into the tune he had been writing .
Once he 'd finished it Brubaker sent it to his bandmates , but was somewhat wary of what they might think , as it was so out of the ordinary for ABR .
He recalled to AntiMusic : `` I emailed it to everyone and explained how I loved the song , but realized that it was very different for us and if everyone hated it , I 'd just save it to record on my own time down the road .
Everybody was cool with it except for our bass player , Dustin , which is now ironic because he is very fond of the track now that it 's all finished and recorded . ''
` Carpe diem ' is a Latin phrase meaning enjoy the present and not worry about tomorrow .
It comes from a Latin poem by Horace , as part of the longer `` Carpe diem , quam minimum credula postero '' -- `` Seize the Day , putting as little trust as possible in the future . ''
