This aggressive rocker finds Eddie Vedder reflecting on what he considers to be the hypocrisy surrounding religion .
The singer is questioning why it is still considered bad manners to condemn faith groups when such disgraceful actions such as the child sex abuse scandals are occurring .
`` I 've got an unfortunate feelin ' I 've been beating down I feel I do n't believe And now the truth is coming out What they 've taken is more than a vow They 've taken your innocence And then they throw them on a burning fire All along they 're sayin ' Mind your manners . ''
Vedder told The Sun .
`` I hate the whole , ` Our way or the highway . '
And then it becomes hypocritical when you see so many of the things which have come out of those organisations -- like the abuse of children and then its cover up .
I have never seen such a dastardly abuse of hypocrisy . ''
Pearl Jam 's contempt for religion was previously expressed on the Yield track `` Faithfull '' where Vedder sings , `` M.Y.T.H is belief in the game .
Controls that keep us in a box of fear . ''
Pearl Jam guitarist Mike McCready wanted the track to feel like the Dead Kennedys .
However , as his background is more Heavy Metal than Punk , he relied on bassist Jeff Ament 's input to achieve what he was aiming for in the song .
`` It 's my attempt to try to make a really hard edge-type Dead Kennedys-sounding song , '' said McCready .
`` In terms of town I was thinking ` East Bay Ray ' and ` California Uber Alles . '
I wanted that kind of aggression and that kind of feel in that song , so I came up with the lyrics ` Mind Your Manners . '
Jeff -LSB- Ament -RSB- brought in a lot of his real punk rock kind of bass ideas of starting and stopping ... the kind of school he comes from is that ; I came from more of the metal thing but always wanted to dive into the punk side . ''
-LRB- For more on the Dead Kennedys - see our interview with their former frontman Jello Biafra . -RRB-
Pearl Jam played the song live for the first time on July 16 , 2013 at Budweiser Gardens in London , Ontario .
The video for the song was directed by photographer and film director Danny Clinch -LRB- The Black Keys ' `` Little Black Submarines . '' -RRB-
It features the band performing in front of a screen filled with partially animated scenes of violence and mass devastation .
