The song 's first line mentions a `` cellar door . ''
Young and Crazy Horse , with Whitten , had played Washington DC 's Cellar Door club in 1969 .
A solo , acoustic performance of this song by Young from Massey Hall in Toronto on January 19 , 1971 features on his 2007 Live at Massey Hall 1971 album .
He introduces it with a short explanation : `` Ever since I left Canada , about five years ago or so and moved down south ... found out a lot of things that I did n't know when I left .
Some of 'em are good , and some of 'em are bad .
Got to see a lot of great musicians before they happened , before they became famous - y' know , when they were just gigging .
Five and six sets a night , things like that .
And I got to see a lot of great musicians who nobody ever got to see , for one reason or another .
But , strangely enough , the real good ones that you never got to see was ... 'cause of , ahhm , heroin .
An ' that started happening over an ' over .
Then it happened to someone that everyone knew about .
So I just wrote a little song . ''
This song is about heroin use and what it will do to you in the end .
Young wrote it about Danny Whitten , one of the original members of his band Crazy Horse .
In 1971 , Young went on tour and hired Crazy Horse and Nils Lofgren as backup .
During rehearsals , Whitten was so high on heroin that he could n't even hold up his guitar .
Young fired him , gave Whitten 50 bucks -LRB- for rehab -RRB- and a plane ticket back to Los Angeles .
Upon reaching LA , Whitten overdosed on alcohol and Valium , which killed him .
Whitten was one of the founding members of Crazy Horse and was very influential on much of Young 's work preceding his heroin addiction .
His influence is particularly noticeable on Young 's second album , 1969 's Everybody Knows This is Nowhere .
Leading up to Whitten 's dismissal from the band and overdose , Young even attempted daily one-on-one lessons to try and rehabilitate his old friend .
This was one of the songs that Young performed at Live Aid in 1985 .
Flea , famed bassist of The Red Hot Chili Peppers , played the song frequently on a 1993 tour following the singer John Frusciante 's temporary departure due to heroin addiction .
Young 's famous version was recorded live at the University Of California in January 1971 , a year before it appeared on his Harvest album .
As quoted in Neil Young : Long May You Run : The Illustrated History , Neil Young says of the tragic death of Whitten : `` I felt responsible .
But really there was nothing I could do .
I mean , he was responsible .
But I thought I was for a long time .
Danny just was n't happy .
It just all came down on him .
He was engulfed by this drug .
That was too bad .
Because Danny had a lot to give .
boy .
He was really good .
`` Incredibly , this would n't be Young 's only loss from heroin to be commemorated in song .
Longtime friend and roadie Bruce Berry would also overdose on heroin just months after Whitten .
Berry 's song is `` Tonight 's The Night , '' on the album of the same name .
The song has struck a long-lived chord with broad range of musicians .
Over the years , it 's also been covered by Pearl Jam 's Eddie Vedder , Dave Matthews , and Jewel .
Young made this succinct statement about the song in the liner notes to his album Decade : `` I am not a preacher , but drugs killed a lot of great men . ''
