Stevens wrote this about finding hope in any situation .
Be present and joyful .
See life as it is , right now , and do n't compare it to others ' lives , or other times in your life .
Every moment in life is rich and unique ; whether we are aware of it or not , we are always leaping and hopping on a moonshadow - the inescapable present moment .
If we are wrapped up in our whirlpools of worry and concern about what could be , or what has been , we are missing the richness of life as it is .
When he appeared on The Chris Isaak Hour in 2009 , Stevens said of this song : `` I was on a holiday in Spain .
I was a kid from the West End -LRB- of London -RRB- - bright lights , ect .
- I never got to see the moon on its own in the dark , there were always streetlamps .
So there I was on the edge of the water on a beautiful night with the moon glowing , and suddenly I looked down and saw my shadow .
I thought that was so cool , I 'd never seen it before . ''
Director John Landis wanted to use this song in his 1981 horror comedy An American Werewolf in London .
The film featured a number of songs with `` moon '' in the title -LRB- `` Moon Dance '' , `` Blue Moon '' , etc. -RRB- but Stevens , who had recently converted to Islam , refused permission because he did not like the subject matter of the film .
-LRB- thanks , Bob - The Colony , TX -RRB- This song was used for a `` Teaser And The Firecat '' animation .
The cover of the album came to life as the boy and cat ride on the moon while this song plays .
It can be found on the Cat Stevens - Majikat -LRB- Earth Tour 1976 -RRB- DVD .
-LRB- thanks , christy - Southlake , TX -RRB- In the bridge of the song , Stevens seems to be speaking of faith , indicating clearly that , although he is experiencing this ecstasy in the present , despite all the losses and suffering of existence , it is the light that has found him , and not the other way around .
He is surrendering to a power greater than himself - the `` faithful light . ''
-LRB- thanks , Ted - Victoria , Canada , for above 2 -RRB- Stevens , now known as Yusuf Islam , considers this his favorite of his old songs .
It 's one of the songs that convinced him to release a Greatest Hits record of his work as Cat Stevens .
He felt its uplifting message could help people .
Stevens has in recent years called this song the `` Optimist 's anthem . ''
-LRB- thanks , Mary - Little Rock , AR -RRB- Artists to record this song include LaBelle , Roger Whittaker and Mandy Moore .
