This was originally an Andy Mackay instrumental .
It became Roxy 's highest charting single , only kept off the top by a re-release of David Bowie 's `` Space Oddity . ''
Roxy would later achieve a # 1 in 1981 with a cover of the then recently deceased John Lennon 's `` Jealous Guy . ''
Saxophonist Andy Mackay recalled to The Mail on Sunday June 28 , 2009 : `` Bryan -LRB- Ferry -RRB- used to work endlessly on lyrics and then deliver them as a live take in the studio , like a conjurer pulling rabbits out of a hat .
The most thrilling of these was this song . ''
He added : '' It 's probably been our best-selling single and the most covered . ''
Speaking to Uncut magazine in a 2012 interview , Ferry recalled his songwriting process .
`` Traditionally , I 've always written alone , '' he said .
`` Until in Roxy , Andy -LRB- Mackay -RRB- and Phil -LRB- Manzanera -RRB- started bringing ideas to the table , and I 'd say , ` Oh yeah , I can work with that . '
So that 's how I started collaborating .
But I would write the tune and the words and the title and they would generally provide the basic chord sequence .
Then I 'd try and do what I could do to turn it into something that was unique .
We did some good collaborations , especially with Andy , ` Song Dor Europe ' ` Love Is The Drug ' stand out . ''
The song contains one of Rock 's most famous basslines .
It has been played at every Bryan Ferry and Roxy Music tour since its release .
-LRB- thanks , Matt - Perth , Australia , for above 2 -RRB- The Siren album cover featured the Texan model Jerry Hall , who was to become Ferry 's girlfriend .
The photo session , which took place in Wales during the Summer of 1975 , was the first time that they 'd met .
Hall ' recalled in her autobiography , Tall Tales that the blue body paint she wore to look like a mythical siren would not wash off .
According to the model , Ferry took her back to his house to help her remove the paint .
Her stay at Ferry 's London home marked the start of their relationship .
Hall later appeared in several of Ferry 's music videos for his solo singles , including `` Let 's Stick Together '' and `` The Price of Love . ''
