This is the first release from the Essex born and raised Bubblegum Punk singer Daisy Coburn , who records under the name Daisy Dares You .
Coburn hails from a musical family ; her mother once worked as a backing singer for bands such as Duran Duran and The The , while her father plays in a Pub Rock band .
Daisy started playing guitar and piano at the age of six and in her early teens when she was introduced to producer Matt Marston , the pair began writing and recording songs together .
Her mum passed on her daughter 's early demos to a music-business contact and a record label bidding war for her signature ensued .
She eventually signed to the Sony-affiliated Jive and released this debut single at the age of 16 .
The song features Coburn 's label mate , London rapper Chipmunk , in a middle eight in which he refers to Daisy 's sister Scarlet by name .
She told BBC 's Newsbeat : `` It 's good for the song because it 's given it an instant .
People know who Chipmunk is . ''
She added concerning the unlikely hook up : `` We 're completely different people but it works .
I would n't do it every single .
It 's -LSB- grime-pop -RSB- , not my bag really .
That 's not my kind of music but it worked and it 's helped me getting played .
He talks to me quite brotherly , it 's cool . ''
Daisy told Digital Spy about the meaning behind this Pop and Punk concoction with lyrics inspired by sibling rivalry : `` It 's about rowing -LRB- note to Americans - `` rowing '' is British for `` fighting '' -RRB- with my sister .
She 's really neurotic and she 's always got some really mad boyfriend on the go .
I was actually talking to her when I wrote the song .
I was sitting on the floor in my room playing the guitar and I started kidding about with some lyrics .
She was like , ` Shut up you tw-t ' , but I was like , ` Matt , we could use this ! '
Me and my sister joke about it now .
Luckily she does n't take the song personally . ''
Daisy explained to CMU her songwriting process : `` I do n't stick to any certain way of writing .
Writing is n't something I just do , it happens if I feel something .
If I 'm playing guitar or piano and something comes up , I 'll write a melody and lyrics after the chord progression ; or just write lyrics and put them to something .
I guess where I am determines the way I would write a song . ''
