Escape the Fate frontman Ronnie Radke received a sentence of five years probation on battery charges in 2006 after the fatal shooting of 18 year-old Michael Cook .
The singer failed to report to his parole officer and was arrested in June 2008 , where he was sentenced to two years in prison .
Following Radke 's incarceration , Escape the Fate kicked him out of the band .
During his time in jail , Radke formed Falling In Reverse with bassist Nason Schoeffler , who helped find guitarist Jacky Vincent and rhythm guitarist Derek Jones .
Later , former drummer Ryan Seaman was recruited .
Schoeffler quit the band in April 2011 and was replaced by Mika Horiuchi , formerly of the band Cellador.The band began recording for the first time in December 2010 after Radke 's release on the 12th of that month .
The ensuing album , The Drug in Me Is You , was released by Epitaph on July 26 , 2011 .
It sold 18,000 copies in its first week in the US charting at # 19 on the Billboard 200 .
This is the second single to be released from the album .
Its accompanying video was shot in LA and directed by Zach Merck , who was also responsible for the visual for the band 's debut single , `` The Drug in Me Is You . ''
The story was inspired by Radke 's lyrics , `` about being an alcoholic and drug addict . ''
`` I wrote the lyrics and melody in prison , '' Radke told Kerrang !
magazine .
`` The video 's like a celebrity rehab spoof .
It 's comedy all round y '' know , just really non-stop funny , stupid little jokey type things . ''
He continued : `` There 's a spoof Dr Drew , a Bret Michaels and a Beverley Hills housewife .
Then there 's a Perez Hilton type , a gangsta rapper and Perez Hilton too .
There are shots of me in an AA meeting and there 's also a very Han Halen scene going on ! ''
The songs for The Drug in Me Is You were all written by Radke during his imprisonment .
Radke told Las Vegas Weekly : `` I would think all day , for days and days , -LSB- about -RSB- what people would want to hear .
I would dissect my old album and read all the fan letters and the reasons why they loved my band and why they listened to it .
And I wrote about that , but in different ways .
I do n't know why these kids love the tragedies that I write about .
I guess they can relate to it . ''
