This was the first overtly political Beatles song .
It was John Lennon 's response to the Vietnam War .
The original slow version appears on The White Album .
The fast , loud version was released as a single .
In the slow version , Lennon says `` count me in '' as well as `` count me out '' when referring to violence .
This gives the song a dual meaning .
There are so many versions of this song because Paul McCartney did n't like it .
Lennon really wanted this song to be the ` A ' side of the single instead of `` Hey Jude , '' and kept changing it around to come up with something that would make Paul see it his way .
He basically wrote the song because he felt like he was being pulled in so many directions by different people , all of whom wanted his backing , politically .
It was also him questioning his own belief in the revolution that was going on ... whether he was `` out '' or `` in . ''
In truth , he was writing about a revolution of the mind rather than a physical `` in the streets '' revolution .
He truly believed that revolution comes from inner change rather than social violence .
-LRB- This is discussed in the DVD Composing the Beatles Songbook -RRB- The Beatles played this , along with `` Hey Jude , '' on The David Frost Show in 1968 .
It was their first performance in 2 years .
They played it for the first time in America on The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour in 1968 .
The dirty guitar sound was created by plugging the guitars directly into the audio board .
The guitar sounded so scratchy that many who bought the 45 RPM single tried to return it , thinking it was defective .
-LRB- thanks to Dwight Rounds , author of The Year The Music Died , 1964-1972 -RRB- John Lennon wanted his vocals to have an unusual sound , so he recorded most of them lying on his back in the studio .
The famous scream at the beginning is a double-tracked recording of Lennon .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France and Jonathon - Clermont , FL -RRB- The Stone Temple Pilots performed this at Madison Square Garden as part of the 2001 special , Come Together : A Night For John Lennon 's Words And Music .
Their version was released as a single , with proceeds going to charity .
John Lennon wrote this in India while The Beatles were at a transcendental meditation camp with The Maharishi .
Lennon told Rolling Stone : `` I had been thinking about it up in the hills in India .
I still had this ` God will save us ' feeling about it , that it 's going to be all right -LRB- even now I 'm saying ` Hold on , John , it 's going to be all right , ' otherwise , I wo n't hold on -RRB- but that 's why I did it , I wanted to talk , I wanted to say my piece about revolution .
I wanted to tell you , or whoever listens , to communicate , to say ` What do you say ?
This is what I say . ' ''
This was released as the B-side of `` Hey Jude . ''
Lennon wanted it to be the first A-side released on Apple Records , the label The Beatles started , but `` Hey Jude '' got the honor .
Nike used this for commercials in 1987 .
Capitol Records , who owns the performance rights , meaning The Beatles version of the song , was paid $ 250,000 .
Michael Jackson , who owns the publishing rights , meaning use of the words and music , also had to agree and was paid for the song .
The Nike commercials caused a huge backlash from Beatles fans who felt that Nike was disrespecting the legacy of John Lennon , who probably would have objected to its use .
There were plans to use more Beatles songs in future ads , but they were abandoned when it became clear it was not good business practice .
As years went by , it became more acceptable to use songs in commercials , but Beatles songs were still considered sacred , especially since the group did not control their rights .
In 2002 , `` When I 'm 64 '' was used in a commercial for Allstate insurance .
Many Beatles fans were not pleased , but it did n't get nearly the reaction of the Nike commercials , partly because it was not a political song , but also because it was sung by Julian Lennon , which implied endorsement by his father .
Nicky Hopkins played the piano .
When The Beatles needed keyboards , they usually used Hopkins , Billy Preston , or their producer , George Martin .
The word `` Revolution '' is mentioned just once , in the first line .
The version on the Hey Jude compilation , released in February 1970 in the US , was the B-side of the `` Hey Jude '' single .
The Hey Jude compilation album peaked at # 2 in the US and consists of a collection of singles and B-sides that had not previously appeared on US non-soundtrack album releases .
The album cover was taken at the final Beatles photo session , at Lennon 's -LRB- later Starr 's -RRB- country estate in Ascot , England .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB-
