Virginia was Virginia Callaghan , a girl Billy had a crush on when he first started playing in a band .
She did n't even know he existed until she saw him in a gig , but thirteen years later he used her as the main character in this song about a Catholic girl who wo n't have premarital sex .
This song was originally recorded with a Reggae groove , which can be heard on some bootlegs that were inadvertently leaked via drummer Liberty DeVito 's camp .
DeVito did n't like the Reggae beat , which is why Joel changed it .
-LRB- thanks , Barry Kesten - Bellmore , United States -RRB- Joel told USA Today July 9 , 2008 : `` Jewish guilt is visceral it 's in the stomach .
Catholic guilt is in the belfry of the cerebrum , it 's gothic and its got incense , bells tolling , and it has all to do with sin .
I wanted to write a song about it , about a guy trying to seduce a Catholic girl .
I do n't know what all the fuss was about , because she stayed chaste .
I remember taking it over to the drummer , Liberty -LRB- DeVitto -RRB- .
` Well , it 's true , ' he said , ` but I do n't know how people are going to respond to it ! ''
Many musicians join bands to meet girls , but few overachieve the way Joel did , dating models and even marrying one of them -LRB- Christie Brinkley -RRB- .
Virginia Callaghan was the first of these girls that thought differently of Joel when she saw him perform .
Billy explained to Uncut in 1998 : `` I originally started in bands just to meet girls -- it was round the time The Beatles first hit America -- but I did n't know you could actually make a living out of it .
My first gig was in a church , about '64 -- we did Beatles songs , and this girl I had a crush on , Virginia Callaghan , who normally would n't look twice at me , just stared at me through the whole gig .
And I thought , ` This is so cool ! '
And then all these other girls were lookin ' at me as well .
Then , at the end of the night , the priest comes up and gives us like 15 dollars apiece , which in '64 was a fortune !
Girls and money !
Man , I was hooked .
This did n't do very well until church officials around the US heard it and condemned the song .
The controversy was great publicity and sent the song up the charts .
Joel recalled to the Metro newspaper July 6 , 2006 about the controversy stirred up by this number : `` That song was released as a single back in 1977 , I think .
It was not really doing very well , just languishing in the charts .
Then it was banned by a radio station in New Jersey at a Catholic university .
The minute the kids found out it was banned , they ran out in droves and it became a huge hit .
If you tell kids they ca n't have something , that 's what they want .
I do n't understand the problem with the song .
It 's about a guy trying to seduce a girl but , at the end of the song , she 's still chaste and pure and he has n't got anything .
So I never understood what the furor was about .
But I did write a letter to the archdiocese who 'd banned it , asking them to ban my next record . ''
