This song is about the bad things money can bring .
Ironically , it made Pink Floyd lots of cash , as the album sold over 34 million copies .
The song begins in an unusual 7/8 time signature , then during the guitar solo the song changes to 4/4 , then returns to 7/8 and ends in 4/4 again .
When Guitar World February 1993 asked Dave Gilmour where the famous time signature for `` Money '' came from , the Pink Floyd guitarist replied : `` It 's Roger 's riff .
Roger came in with the verses and lyrics for ` Money ' more or less completed .
And we just made up middle sections , guitar solos and all that stuff .
We also invented some new riffs - we created a 4/4 progression for the guitar solo and made the poor saxophone player play in 7/4 .
It was my idea to break down and become dry and empty for the second chorus of the solo . ''
Many studio effects were used on this song .
They were using a new 16-track recorder , which allowed them to layer sounds much easier , but complex studio techniques like this still took a long time to do in 1973 , as there were n't digital recorders and samplers available like we have today .
If you wanted to copy and paste something , you had to do it the hard way - with a razor blade and splicing tape .
The album was engineered by famed British producer and studio genius Alan Parsons at Abby Road Studios .
Parsons later started his own band called The Alan Parsons Project and scored a hit in the '80s with `` Eye In The Sky . ''
He remains a much sought after music engineer and producer today .
-LRB- thanks , Dave - Marieta , GA , for above 3 -RRB- Along with `` Us And Them , '' this is one of 2 songs on the album to use a saxophone , which was played by Dick Parry .
The band wanted to experiment with new sounds on these sessions .
Due to a record company dispute , they had to re-record this for their 1981 greatest hits album , A Collection Of Great Dance Songs -LRB- the title is a joke .
You ca n't dance to Floyd -RRB- .
There are very subtle differences between this version and the original .
Like many of their songs , this was not released as a single in the UK , where singles were perceived as a sellout .
There is a scene in The Wall where the main character -LRB- Pink -RRB- is a student in school , and the teacher catches him writing a poem instead of doing the work he was supposed to be doing .
The teacher reads the poem out loud , and it is this song .
He makes the student look like a fool and everyone in the classroom laughs at him .
The teacher then tells him `` It 's rubbish laddy , now get back to work ! ''
It probably symbolizes the way that we are raised almost uniform-like throughout our entire lives , starting in school .
This is a theme of the movie .
-LRB- thanks , Derek - Raleigh , NC -RRB- In 2002 , a group called The Easy Star All-Stars recorded a Reggae version of the album called Dub Side Of The Moon .
On this song , the sounds of money were replaced by sounds of someone smoking from a water-based marijuana delivery device -LRB- OK , a bong -RRB- .
The cash register loop and bass line at the introduction to this song are used in a radio show that plays in the US , The Dave Ramsey Show .
The show offers financial advice to struggling people , so the song ties in well .
-LRB- thanks , Collin - Texas , TX -RRB- In Quentin Tarantino 's 1992 film Reservoir Dogs , this song was originally intended to be used in a specific opening sequence .
However , after hearing the song `` Little Green Bag '' by the George Baker Selection , Tarantino decided to use it instead because he it gave him an extreme sense of nostalgia .
-LRB- thanks , Ashlynd - Charleston , WV -RRB- This is often misinterpreted as a tribute to money .
Many people thought the line `` Money , it 's a gas , '' meant they considered money a very good thing .
Roger Waters is the only songwriter credited on this , but the lead vocal is by David Gilmour .
Waters provided the basic music and lyrics , while the whole band created the instrumental jam of the song .
Gilmour was the one overseeing time change and responsible the acclaimed guitar solo .
Rick Wright and Nick Mason .
-LRB- thanks , Juuso - Kauhava , Finland , for above 2 -RRB- Roger Waters put together the cash register tape loop that plays throughout the song .
It also contains the sounds of tearing paper and bags of coins being thrown into an industrial food-mixing bowl .
The intro was recorded by capturing the sounds of an old cash register on tape , and meticulously splicing and cutting the tape in a rhythmic pattern to make the `` cash register loop '' effect.Bands like The Beatles had used tape loops , but never like this .
The tape loop used on this was about 20 feet long , and if you 've ever seen a reel-to-reel tape machine , you can imagine how hard it was to keep it playing .
In order to get the right tension and continuously feed the machine , they set up the loop in a big circle using microphone stands to hold it up .
It was fed through the tape machine and played throughout the song .
The lyrics contain a naughty word .
`` Bulls -- t '' was left in the original release , but their record company quickly put out a version with the word removed , which became known as the `` Bull Blank '' version .
As happens throughout Dark Side Of The Moon , random voices come in at the end .
Waters drew up flashcards with deep philosophical questions on them , then showed them to people around the studio and taped their answers .
The ones they liked made the album .
Among the people questioned : a doorman , a roadie , and Paul McCartney .
Most contributions were not used , but McCartney 's guitarist at the time , Henry McCullough , made the final cut with his answer , `` I do n't know ; I was really drunk at the time . ''
If you start the CD on the 3rd roar of the MGM lion , this begins just as the film goes to color in The Wizard Of Oz .
A cultural difference in the song : the reference to the `` football team . ''
In America , the sport is known as soccer .
The line , `` Money , so they say , is a root of all evil today '' is a paraphrase from the New Testament - 1 Timothy 6:10 : `` For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil . ''
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Lunar surface -RRB- A group called Reloaded , made up of former Guns N ' Roses members with Scott Weiland from The Stone Temple Pilots as lead singer , recorded this for the 2003 movie The Italian Job .
The group eventually changed their name to Velvet Revolver .
In the documentary The Making of Dark Side Of The Moon , it was revealed that Roger Waters wrote this in his garden , and the original demo version was described by him as being `` Prissy and very English . ''
-LRB- thanks , Tim - PGH , PA -RRB- Guitar World asked Gilmour if he was purposely trying to get away from just playing a 12 bar blues on guitar .
He replied : `` No , I just wanted to make a dramatic effect with the three solos .
The first solo is ADT 'd - Artificially Double Tracked .
I think I did the first two solos on a Fender Stratocaster , but the last one was done on a different guitar - a Lewis , which was made by some guy in Vancouver .
It had a whole two octaves on the neck , which meant I could get up to notes that I could n't play on a Stratocaster . ''
