The Fray 's vocalist Isaac Slade penned this lullaby for his little brother Micah after he 'd called him at four in the morning complaining that that he was having a hard time sleeping .
The next morning Slade got out of bed , grabbed a guitar and started playing a comforting song for his brother .
He told Denver Westword : `` I did n't really write it ; I just started playing it .
The melody and the lyrics just kind of fell into place .
It 's only happened like that with maybe that song ` Happiness ' - and that 's probably it .
It never really comes that easy .
And this one just kind of downloaded from somewhere .
And I had n't finished it completely .
I only had two or three verses .
I wrote it in , like , ten minutes and was playing it to my wife .
She was sitting in bed .
`` After breakfast Slade drove to the studio got out his phone and went over the lyrics .
He recalled : `` I sang it a couple of times , kind of hammering out the lyrics , pushing pause and record and pause and record .
I finished it and texted the guys on my way and say , ` Hey , I got a lullaby I want to record .
It 's probably not going to fit the record , but I want to record it for my little brother and send it to him . '
Because basically , I had no idea what to say .
So I took one pass at it , and all the guys walked into the room and they all said , ` That sounds important .
Do it again . '
So they all laid down around my piano .
I 'll never forget them laying on their backs with their eyes closed and the lights turned down low at ten in the morning .
I laid down a second take , and that made the record . ''
Guitarist Joe King commented to Denver Westword : `` It 's definitely the rawest song on the record .
There 's a couple of misplayed chords and his voice cracks a couple of times .
That 's one is special for me and my family .
I even played for my girls one night when they were going to bed .
I went into their room , and I was like , ` Daddy wants to play you a song .
Isaac wrote it for his little brother . '
And we all sat on the bed and listened to it . ''
The song appears to be written from God 's point of view , with the Lord comforting Micah and telling him `` If no one is standing beside you/Be still and know I am . ''
