This is the first single from American heavy metal band Five Finger death Punch 's third studio album , American Capitalist .
It was released on July 27 , 2011 .
Guitarist Jason Hook told Loudwire the song 's lyric `` came from a direct response to Internet haters . ''
He added : `` The Internet has a small community of haters , people that try to stimulate themselves by attacking any news post that comes up on some of the favorite music news sites .
They leave harsh attacking comments and encourage other haters to get on board .
We read this stuff and kind of scratch our heads a bit wondering where it comes from .
I do n't understand why some people feel that that 's necessary .
But ` Under and Over It ' was a direct response to that kind of stuff and that small group of people .
The comment threads are coming from anonymous people . ''
The band enlisted Kraddy to remix the song , and the electro-guru transformed it into an dubstep-infused version of the original tune .
However FFDP fans reacted negatively on Facebook and the metallers were forced to quench a revolt .
After successions of unenthusiastic comments were posted the band replied : `` LOL !
Before all the confusion starts with the Under and Over remix -- we are not turning into a dubstep or step dance act any time soon . ''
Vocalist Ivan Moody explained the song 's meaning to Revolver magazine : `` This one is about the rumors and gossip that go on everywhere - especially online .
It 's comical to see how much crazy , ill-informed s -- t people will post as news and when they 're trolling around message boards .
In today 's day and age , speculation and bad info can just fly around the internet and catch fire - even when it 's completely false and unfounded .
Funny s -- t. '' Hook told Loudwire that the band toned down Ivan Moody 's original lyric , which was originally written as `` I 'm F -- ing Over It . ''
He explained : `` We told him we were n't sure if he should say that , there 's got to be a more clever way of saying the same thing .
We tossed around some ideas and came up with ` I 'm Under and Over It ' which actually fits the whole concept of how much work is involved and how we 're under a lot of pressure .
Even though we enjoy what we do , you ca n't get away from it . ''
The light-hearted music video finds the L.A. hard rockers taking inspiration from 1980 's hair metal visuals .
Guitarist Zoltan Bathory told Artist Direct : `` We wanted to hit a pretty sarcastic tone with it , so it looks like a typical big c -- k rock video , but in a tongue in cheek way .
We put all the ` big-time video ' clichés in it except for the booty shake ... or maybe we even got that , I do n't remember .
We do have the party scenes , cars , airplanes , mansions , pools and girls -- of course you ca n't have a raaawwwk video without your token pool scene . ''
