Fiona Apple often uses colors to describe her thoughts - she refers to the basic elements of a song as its `` primary colors . ''
On this track , she uses color theory as an analog for her feelings , and to describe a relationship that is n't working ; two colors mixed together can create a new color , but that color is often gray - far less vibrant than the original .
Red is what she sees when she looks upon the relationship , which clearly is n't working .
Taylor Swift wrote her own sanguine song with a similar theme on `` Red , '' which was the title track to her 2012 album .
This is one of nine songs on the Extraordinary Machine album that was re-recorded nearly two years after it was first put to tape .
The original sessions were produced by Jon Brion , who had produced Fiona 's previous album When the Pawn ... , and had also worked with Aimee Mann and Rufus Wainwright .
These sessions were fraught with problems ; originally scheduled for release in 2003 , by 2005 there was still no album .
Brion moved on to other commitments , the record company pulled funding , and the album seemed dead .
It was salvaged when Fiona 's friend , the producer Brian Kehew , offered to work with her in a new environment : his home studio .
Over the next month , they recorded new versions of the songs , stripping them down for simplicity .
Musicians were brought in as needed , which offered a fresh perspective .
For this track , Kehew enlisted Jebin Bruni , who was part of Fiona 's touring band .
In our interview with Brian Kehew , he explained : `` Jebin brought a little Casio keyboard with tiny keys , as well as the keyboards we had available .
He started playing along with that song , and he started playing this moody , dark , low thing on his Casio that instantly changed the mood .
Fiona was there and said , ' I like that . '
And we , at that moment , changed the style of the song to a different , slower kind of languid mood ; almost drone-y , but not quite .
It now sounds like slow molasses , which is a different kind of feeling than it originally had when the recording was done .
But that took it in a new direction just from a keyboard sound . ''
-LRB- Here 's Brian 's full story of making Extraordinary Machine . -RRB-
