This was written by the songwriting team of Burt Bacharach and Hal David .
It was originally released as the B-side of `` Blue Guitar '' by Richard Chamberlain in 1963 .
-LRB- thanks , Richard - Toronto , Canada -RRB- The Carpenters signed with A&M Records in 1969 , which was co-owned by Herb Alpert .
Burt Bacharach asked Alpert to record the song himself , but he did n't feel comfortable with the lyrical content - `` Moondust in your hair '' - and instead produced a new arrangement for the Carpenters .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- In their first sessions for this song , Karen Carpenter played the drums , which Alpert did n't like .
Said the producer : `` I thought it was a little light .
And so I asked them to go back in the studio again , because Karen was playing drums .
And they recorded it the second time and I still felt they were missing a little something on the groove , so I suggested very carefully to Karen that maybe Hal Blaine should come in and play drums on it .
`` Blaine replaced Karen on drums and they got the take they liked with Richard on piano , Joe Osborn on bass , and Karen singing .
This was the first of a string of hits for the Carpenters .
They dominated Easy Listening radio in the early '70s .
This was featured in the 1989 movie Parenthood , starring Steve Martin .
It was used in a scene where Rick Morranis ' character sings to apologize to his wife in the middle of teaching her class .
-LRB- thanks , Britney - Calabasas , CA -RRB- Dusty Springfield recorded an early version of this song in 1964 , which was originally scheduled for release as a single and potential follow-up to her hit `` I Just Do n't Know What To Do with Myself . ''
However , it was n't until 3 years later , in 1967 , that her version was finally was released on her album Where Am I Going ? .
Richard Carpenter said of recording this song : `` He -LRB- Herb Alpert -RRB- just gave me a lead sheet , and he said , ' I have a recording of this , but I do n't want you to hear it .
I do n't want anything to influence what I may come up with .
Just keep , at the end of the first bridge , two piano quintuplets . '
That record , that song , the arrangement , all of it , is misleading to the uninitiated , because it sounds simple .
And it 's anything but simple . ''
The trumpet part in the middle of the song did n't come easy : Richard had a very specific sound in mind , and had multiple trumpets trying to play it , which was n't working because each trumpet was playing slightly different .
Chuck Findley solved the problem by playing all the parts himself , then layering them together to create the elusive sound Richard wanted .
The Carpenters ' first single was a cover of The Beatles ' `` Ticket To Ride , '' which hit # 54 in the US .
This was their second single .
