The album title refers to the Roland TR-808 drum machine , which West used to make the drum sounds for the set .
It also alludes to his feelings regarding the ending of his 18-month engagement to the designer Alexis Phifer and the recent tragic death of his mother .
The Observer November 30 , 2008 asked West what came first , the 808 's or the Heartbreak ?
The Chicago rapper replied : `` The music , then I came up with the title because I was taking an 808 and pitching it .
A lot of people have used 808s in the past but because it was so low , nobody bothered messing with the pitch .
I actually call the effect ` heartbreak . '
It sounds distorted and electronic , and just the sound of it represents where I 'm at . ''
This was West 's first release not to need a Parental Advisory label .
This song features GOOD Music artist Kid Cudi , who also appears in the video .
The album was recorded in Hawaii whose area code is `` 808 . ''
However West said this was mere co-incidence as he 'd already thought up the title before he became aware of this fact .
The song 's music video was directed by Los Angeles-based photographer Nabil Elderkin who 'd previously helmed the promo for `` Champion '' from West 's 2007 album Graduation .
Elderkin told MTV News that the video features a bleeding-pixels element .
that is called `` data moshing , '' to convey the haunting element of the track .
He explained : `` I wanted to use it more of strategic way , using calculated moshes , colors and textures to compliment the effect .
Different parts of the songs represented different feelings , and I wanted to come with a visual representation of the flow and textures that are I feel are very important in this song .
I shot different things in super-slow-motion with the Phantom just for transitional movement and textures .
`` Elderkin added that he pitched the idea to West following a meeting for their book .
He said : `` I knew that was the song this video had to be for .
He liked what I showed him , and I nagged him a few times about doing it .
I told him again , I really felt this would be a great visual for the song , and he pulled the trigger .
I got busy on the phone trying to put it together , and somehow we did it the next day in New York .
I shot all the extra components the following week in L.A. '' In the book Chicken Soup For The Soul : The Story Behind The Song , West explained that this song was inspired by a conversation with Dave Sirulnick , a producer from MTV , who had a small photo album of him and his wife and children .
West said : `` It struck me that I really want to be married and have a family , but that has n't worked out for me .
` My friend showed me pictures of his kids/And all I could show him was pictures of my cribs . '
I felt like I was in high school and jealous of what another guy had .
I knew that was what I really wanted .
`` West went on to explain the verse : `` He said his daughter got a brand new report card/And all I got was a brand new sports car . ''
He said : `` You have to put time and effort into a relationship with the right person and you have to be with the right person to have a family .
Being # 1 is great and I want that but I also want to chase other dreams in my life .
It was the first time a rap artist spoke condescendingly about property , possessions like a sports car .
People are so concerned with what they have or what other people have instead of what 's really important -- other people .
Things like cars are usually used to show how people make it , but there is nothing more important than home and family .
`` West added that the verse `` about missing my sister 's wedding is absolutely true .
I had to leave to catch a plane to London .
These are real accounts of my life . ''
