`` Wild Wild Life '' was written by David Byrne , the most talkative head of Talking Heads .
It is the biggest hit single from their seventh studio album True Stories , the not-quite-a-soundtrack album from the film of the same name.Part of this song 's popularity came from the video , which won two MTV Video Music Awards in 1987 - one for Best Group Video , and one for Best Video From A Film .
The video was in fact recycled film footage .
As an extra bit of fractal symmetry , the film contains a sequence in which a woman is watching a music video on TV ; that video was a fictional video also by the band , for their song `` Love For Sale . ''
The video was later expanded and released on its own right .
As opposed to straightforward concert films such as Stop Making Sense , the film True Stories makes some attempt at a story about a village preparing for a festival , with said village populated with various oddball characters .
Most notable in the cast is John Goodman , in one of his earliest major film roles .
This was a year before Goodman played in Raising Arizona , which introduced him to the Coen brothers and ultimately led to his most famous role as Walter Sobchak in The Big Lebowski : `` I can get you a toe by 3 o'clock this afternoon - with nail polish ! ''
With lyrics like `` Check out Mr. Businessman , he bought some wild , wild life ; On the way to the stock exchange , he got some wild , wild life , '' the Talking Heads remind us that they took satire and social commentary back from punk rock and repackaged it in new wave drag .
In the book Avant Rock - Experimental Music From Beatles to Bjork by Bill Martin , Martin argues , `` If punk was in part the music of the outcast ne'er - do-well , new wave of the Talking Heads variety was the revenge of the nerds .
Much punk eschewed , supposedly , any aspect of ` performance ' - this is just me and my authentic rage !
David Byrne went the opposite route , toward unabashed self-consciousness .
Of course , that is performative as well , but part of what made Talking Heads so refreshing was the anti-attitude attitude : ' I am doing this , and I know that I am doing this . ' ''
