Dawn Richard was born in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Her father is Frank Richard , who is the former lead singer and percussionist of the popular Funk/Soul band Chocolate Milk , and her mother owned a dancing school where Dawn spent much of her childhood developing her skills at choreography and singing .
Richard 's `` big break '' came in 2005 when she auditioned for the MTV show Making The Band 3 , where she beat out numerous contestants to secure herself a spot in Bad Boy Records ' label head , Sean `` Diddy '' Combs ' girl group , Danity Kane .
They disbanded four years later and in 2010 Richard joined Diddy-Dirty Money with Diddy and Kalenna Harper .
The trio split up the following year and following her departure from Bad Boy Records , she launched her solo career .
This bass-driven track is the lead single from Richard 's debut EP Armor On .
The record serves as a prelude to her GoldenHeart album and the alter-ego she uses , NEON .
The Druski produced song was debuted on January 27 , 2012 .
It was Richard 's goal to push the boundaries not only on this song but also on the rest of Armor On .
She told Billboard magazine : `` I wanted people to feel uncomfortable when they heard it .
Not just that record , but with the EP .
It 's so funny because when we play it , people 's faces look like they 're trying to grab -LSB- the music -RSB- .
I love it because that 's the feeling I got when I heard Phil Collins for the first time .
That was the feeling I got when I heard Kanye -LSB- West -RSB- 's 808s and Heartbreaks , Sade 's album and The Cranberries ' album . ''
The video was shot in the desert where Richard , who is wearing a feathered headpiece , and her dancers employ East Indian choreography .
`` I wanted the art direction to be cohesive with the song and sound of the EP , '' said Dawn .
`` Warriors fighting for the same cause .
` Bombs ' is the ` Hearts have arrived ' record ... It 's such a confident record and the way we approached it is super aggressive and super cocky . ''
Richard told Billboard how her personal life influenced the EP : `` It 's my entire life , '' she said , `` but that 's how people can relate .
It 's honest .
Most of it was -LSB- of -RSB- my relationship with music .
Most of it was -LSB- of -RSB- the love life that I had with it .
It was n't even about a man .
Armor On explains why I needed armor in the first place .
Sonically you 'll hear this battle of , ' I love you , no I do n't .
I love you , I hate you . '
That 's what you 'll feel .
You see the story kind of fight against itself . ''
