Chickenfoot is a band made up of former Van Halen members Sammy Hagar on vocals and Michael Anthony on bass with Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith and guitarist Joe Satriani .
Their self-titled debut album was co-produced by Andy Johns -LRB- Van Halen -RRB- .
Satriani explained to Ultimate-Guitar .
com how this song came about spontaneously : `` We got ready to record another track , though I ca n't remember the name of the track - its name might have been ` Turnin ' Left . '
I had just tuned my guitar , and we 'd just gotten the sound right .
We 'd changed the snare drum , and I just sat there .
I checked the tuning of my guitar , and played a little riff from a track of mine called ` Rubina 's Blue Sky Happiness ' from The Extremist -LRB- 1992 -RRB- .
Chad looked at me , and I saw him start this type of beat .
Spontaneously , I just started playing this blues riff .
As I started playing that riff , Sam thought I was playing him a track , which he had n't heard yet , a track , which turned into ` My Kinda Girl . '
Over the microphone , Sam began saying ` Joe , is this the new song ?
Is this the new song ?
I like it , I like it ' , though I could n't hear him - I did n't have the vocals feeding through my monitor yet .
I just played , but played very lightly with my left hand , since I did n't want to put the strings out of tune .
I figured that any second , we would stop , and get back to business , which was recording the other track .
We just kept jamming , and then Sammy started to sing .
Basically , he literally worded the track on the spot .
When we were finished , we all looked into the control room , and said ` Did you record that ? ' .
Of course , Andy had .
He 's a smart gentleman , and knew something was happening .
That was the one and only occasion we ever played ` Down the Drain . '
The track was written upon the spot , and we just entered the studio , contributing some keyboards here , and an extra guitar there , as well as contributing a background vocal .
That 's the most magical writing moment I 've ever had as part of a group . ''
