This was written by Nashville songwriters Wyatt Easterling and John Scott Sherrill .
Says Sherrill : `` That 's another one of those true life situations where I was really feeling like it was time to cut loose from everything and head on out , find some different kind of life .
It was kind of rolling around in my head without a real title , but just the feeling of wanting to leave .
Finally one day the title popped up and it was smooth sailing . ''
Sherrill moved to Nashville from New Hampshire in 1975 : `` I had a little band up there , a hippie band .
We lived in a commune together and raised all our own food , made our own beer and wine , had chickens and cows and everything else .
Every time we needed money , we 'd go play a gig .
It was backwards thinking compared to the real world , but it was great while it lasted - for about 5 years .
Then it dissolved like bands will , and I was cast adrift .
I was looking for something to do and was headed out to California to see if I could try the music business out there , and my van broke down here in Nashville on the way out there .
In a thunderous rainstorm the windshield motor could n't keep up and it caught fire , so there was smoke pouring out from under the dashboard ; it fried up all my electrical wiring and I had to pull over and get a job to fix it .
That 's how I ended up here.While I was trying to get money to fix the van I started going around to some of these writers nights , which I had never even heard of .
The songs up in New Hampshire with The Family Of Pan , these songs were 10 , 12 , 15 minutes long and they 'd change keys , they 'd change tempos .
They were very hippie songs , they did n't really make much sense .
So here I am going to these writer 's nights and it blew my mind , these people could emotionally grab you and take you on a journey in 3 minutes .
I was just blown away , I could n't get enough of it.I knew the name of one guy here in town from the old Family Of Pan days .
Harry Chapin 's brother Steve was producing the Family Of Pan band for Electra records but they passed on it after a couple of sessions where we traveled down to New York with all of our equipment .
We had a ball .
So I contacted Steve Chapin and said I was headed out to Los Angeles , and he gave me a couple of names out there and said if I was passing through Nashville I should look up Rob Galbraith at Combine Music , so I did have one name in town .
I went over there and played him some of my songs and he said , ` Well , you know , these songs are interesting but they 're 15 minutes long and they change keys .
What you need to do is learn a little bit about this .
Why do n't you come in the back door , so you do n't have to go through the secretary , and just go up the back stairs and hang out with those writers up there and listen to what they 're doing , ' which I thought was really wonderful of them to let me do that .
It was like going to songwriting college , just to hang around with those guys .
Back then , Combine was the epicenter of this whole thing .
It was just awesome the different types of writers who were over there : Lee Clayton , Tony Joe White , Kris Kristofferson - just unbelievable writers .
I used to get to hang out , watch them work and listen to their songs .
It was an incredible experience .
I got the van fixed and had no desire to go to L.A. '' The ring on the finger is a reference to Sherrill 's first marriage .
Bentley wrote most of the songs on the album , but this resonated with him and he not only recorded it , but used it as the title .
Says Sherrill : `` He had heard that song - he heard me play it or something - and liked it .
He wanted to do it on his first album but never got around to it , but never forgot about it .
The second album came around and sure enough , he cut it .
That really blew my mind because it is a personal song and it 's a ballad , not your typical up-tempo Country record , but it tickled me to death . ''
-LRB- thanks to John Scott Sherrill for speaking with us about his songs -RRB-
