This song was co-written by Stephen Barker Liles , who is a member of the band Love and Theft .
Liles was the subject of Taylor Swift 's song `` Hey Stephen , '' which included finger snaps from McBride 's children .
In addition to Stephen Barker Liles , the other co-writers were Brad and Brett Warren -LRB- who comprise The Warren Brothers -RRB- , and Robert Ellis Orrall .
Liles and Brett Warren told The Boot the story of the song : Liles : `` Originally the song idea was a guy singing it .
It was about him trying to move in on a rebound of this girl going , ` Oh , he left me , and I 'm so sad . '
Then he goes , ` No , everything 's going to be alright ... I 'm here ! '
`` Brett Warren : `` It was written from a guy 's standpoint ... putting his arm around a girl he likes , going , ` It 's OK , you 're going to find somebody soon ... maybe in five or 10 minutes ! '
That 's what the whole thing was -- one of those rebound songs about the guy being at the right place at the right time .
It was initially for Love and Theft .
We loved it , Stephen loved it and Love and Theft 's producer loved it , but for some reason it just slipped through the cracks .
I stuck it on a demo CD with something else for Martina .
She called me back and said , ' I love this song !
This is killer .
Can we switch some pronouns and some things around to make it work for me ? '
`` Liles : `` In the verse , it used to be ` it ai n't wrong baby wrong baby wrong , cuz it feels so right when you put your hand in mine ' ... but it probably would 've been weird if she was talking about how right it feels holding some girl 's hand !
-LSB- laughs -RSB- She changed it to a lot better of a line about he 's moving on , good and gone .
`` Brett Warren : `` We did n't know how it would turn out , but she cut it like an old Linda Ronstadt-meets-modern-country-radio sound .
It 's killer !
I love that song .
It is commercially one of the coolest songs Brad and I have ever written .
I love Stephen and writing with him .
He 's an open book of wild , crazy melodies and ideas and things . ''
Even though she did n't write this song , McBride did make a few changes to make it all her own .
She explained : `` When the song was originally written , it was written as a guy who was hanging out with this girl .
She 'd broken up with this guy or he 'd broken up with her .
And the person who was singing this song was a guy who was kind of hanging out going , ` Well , eventually you 'll notice me . '
So we took it and turned it around so it 's two friends talking to each other . ''
