Recorded in Los Angeles and their native Portland , Oregon in 2011 , The Shins ' fourth album , Port Of Morrow , was produced by Greg Kurstin , who also worked with Foster The People on their debut set Torches and Kelly Clarkson on her fifth studio release Stronger .
While promoting Port Of Morrow , frontman James Mercer stated the main themes include love -LRB- inspired by his wife and two young daughters -RRB- and the intertwining of the dual nature of life - the beautiful and the grotesque .
Between The Shins previous release Wincing The Night Away and Port Of Morrow , Mercer , became a father to two daughters .
This song finishes with him describing the predatory circle of life as `` a fact of life I know to hide from my little girls . ''
He concludes with the couplet : `` I know my place amongst the creatures in the pageant/And there are flowers in the garbage , and a skull under your curls . ''
The lines were inspired by one of his daughters falling ill .
Explained Mercer to Q magazine : `` When I was writing the album , one of our children had a health scare .
It was terrifying .
Having children is this whole new world of emotional terror .
So yeah , a couple of the songs are about that . ''
The Port of Morrow is a port site on the Columbia River in Boardman , Morrow County , Oregon .
The title track ends symbolically the musical journey that the band embarked on throughout the album .
`` Port of Morrow , you know , I do n't know too much about what the actual place is , '' Mercer said to Spinner about the titular port of call .
`` I know it 's an industrial port over here in Portland , Oregon .
What I do know is at the end of every tour when we return home to Portland , in eastern Oregon you pass this little sign and it says ` Port of Morrow ' and it 's something about the mood that you 're in at the end of the tour and just the strange evocative nature of that phrase.It ended up being a line in the song ` Port of Morrow ' that , to me , '' he added , `` ended up symbolizing the exit point of everyone 's life ... which is death .
So that 's what ` Port of Morrow ' is about : death and mortality and understanding that 's what awaits you and the strange dichotomy of life being beautiful and engaging and fascinating and wonderful , but also dark .
`` Mercer concluded : `` I think that 's something in the last few years that I 've come to realize - that strong artistic experiences are always coupled .
There 's always a moment of beauty with its fragile and transient nature . ''
