This was the victory song for 2009 American Idol winner Kris Allen .
He and Adam Lambert , who was the other finalist , each performed the song on the final night of voting .
When Allen sang this power ballad , he was tripped up as the song 's arrangement was too high for his vocal range .
This made it even more surprising when he defeated Lambert to win the competition .
The song had to endure mainly negative reviews , particularly concerning its the lyrics .
MTV 's Gil Kaufman , for instance , described them as `` a titanic mound of turgid clichés . ''
Even Idol judge Simon Cowell mocked the song and the lyrics about `` mountains '' and `` hurricanes . ''
This was also the debut single release for the 2009 American Idol runner-up Adam Lambert .
It was the second instance of both the winner and runner-up releasing the same single .
Previously , both the grand finalists of the 2005 American Idol , Carrie Underwood and Bo Bice , released `` Inside Your Heaven . ''
DioGuardi admitted to MTV News in a 2011 interview that this song nearly ended her career .
She compared Kris Allen and Adam Lambert 's finale performances to a plane crash before adding , `` Let me tell you what really happened : I wrote that song for a girl , and when it went into the male register , it was a nightmare .
Certain songs do n't translate . ''
The song was co-written by Idol judge Kara DioGuardi , along with Cathy Dennis -LRB- `` I Kissed a Girl '' -RRB- and Mitch Allan , who is lead singer of the band SR-71 .
Allan and DioGuardi previously teamed up to pen the Jonas Brothers hit `` Play My Music , '' which was on the soundtrack of the 2008 movie Camp Rock .
USA Today asked Allen how he felt about this being his first single release .
He replied : `` You know , the song is good .
They kind of have some stipulations on what they 're supposed to do with these songs .
So they have to write the words a certain way , and it 's supposed to be this nice feeling .
To have your first single not be something you were a part of writing is a little bit weird , but , you know , I ca n't complain . ''
This was the first Idol `` coronation song '' not to be included on the artist 's major-label debut album .
