The song 's theme is the love the narrator has for his lover .
He 'd gladly experience the difficult times , broken hearts and tears again if he knew they would lead him back to her .
Steele told AOL 's The Boot that he wrote the song with Robson shortly after losing his 13-year-old son , Alex , in a tragic accident .
He explained : `` Steve and I were both at the Grammys and nominated for ` What Hurts the Most . '
It was two weeks after Alex died .
I was n't going to go .
I was supposed to sing at this BMI songwriter event as a pre-Grammy celebration .
I was going to cancel , because I was too busted up .
I did n't know what to do with myself .
I kept calling BMI and saying , ` I 'm not going to be able to to this ... it 's too soon , and I do n't feel right . '
They called me back and said , ` If you feel like doing it , the door is open .
` There was this group , Three 6 Mafia , that Alex wanted to meet , and they were going to be at the Grammys .
I decided at the last minute we were going to go and try to meet them , so we could tell them about Alex and how bad he wanted to meet them .
That was our reason for now going.I called BMI and said , ' I am going to be there and try to get through this . '
So I go to L.A. and do this show .
I sang ` What Hurts The Most ' for Alex. Right when I finished singing , I get a call from Steve saying he was in town .
He said , ' I want to meet up with you - we 're going to celebrate , because we 're nominated ! '
He was going to be in town two extra days writing for this Amarican Idol thing .
He asked if I wanted to get together .
I told him I was supposed to be going back , but I 'd stay an extra day.The next day , I met him at this funky studio in Venice , California .
We got together , and I really did n't feel like doing anything .
I was really depressed .
He started playing this music he was working on .
When I hear his music , it makes it so easy for lyrics and melodies to fall out of me .
As soon as I heard what he was playing , I came up with the melody and words about all the roads I had to take to get me here ... even though you 're gone now , I 'd go back and do it again .
That was the thought in my head .
It was the first thing I put on paper since his death .
It was kind of written as a love song , but it was really directed at Alex. It was a pretty magical , bittersweet and tearful moment .
The result was that song . ''
This was written by Steve Robson and Jeffrey Steele who were also responsible for penning Rascal Flatts crossover hit `` What Hurts The Most . ''
