This T-Bone Burnett and Ryan Bingham penned song was written for the Jeff Bridges starring movie , Crazy Heart , which was directed by Scott Cooper .
Colin Farrell and Bridges perform renditions of the song in the film whilst Bingham and his Dead Horses serve as Bridges ' backing band in the movie .
Bingham sings the official version of the song on the Crazy Heart : Original Motion Picture Soundtrack album .
In the movie Jeff Bridges ' character Bad Blake is a down-and-out Country music singer-songwriter who tries to turn his life around after beginning a relationship with a young journalist named Jean .
-LRB- plot spoiler alert ! -RRB- .
After breaking up with her Blake struggles to write as he tries to redeem himself in Jean 's eyes by fighting his alcoholism , and he eventually produces this song , which he thinks is his best ever .
Burnett told American Songwriter magazine why he thinks this song works so well .
`` It gives Bad a new lease on life , '' he said .
`` His creativity having been frozen , this is the thaw , this is him returning to his creative process .
And it was a good song for him to be laying around on the bed singing , for him to be thinking about doing , and it had a great vibe .
And it had a killer title .
I was trying to get Scott to call the movie The Weary Kind , but that did n't work . ''
Alternative country artist Bingham and his Dead Horses backing band originally came to Los Angeles for some small club gigs , and at one he met a talent agent , Jack Wigam of Creative Artists Agency .
When Cooper was looking for songwriters to contribute to Crazy Heart , Wigam gave Cooper some of his music .
Bingham told American Songwriter magazine what happened next : `` Scott called him up and said he wanted to meet me for lunch .
We talked about music and Scott , who had given me the script , said , ` If you 're inspired to write anything , let me know . '
I went on the road right after that , read the script and started working on the song .
I got home and made a rough demo and sent it to Scott , but I did n't hear for two or three weeks .
Then , one day , I was home and Scott called me up and he said he was over at T-Bone 's house working on some songs and wanted to know if I 'd come over and meet everybody .
I grabbed a copy of ` The Weary Kind ' to take with me and went to T-Bone 's house .
The first thing he did when I walked in the door was say , ` What have you got in your hand ?
Let me see that record . '
We all went in the living room , played the stereo loud as we could play it and they all said , ` Man , that 's the song we want to use . ' ''
The song won the Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 2010 Oscars .
It was the first win for both the writers though Burnett was previously nominated alongside Elvis Costello for `` Scarlet Tide '' from Cold Mountain The duo also won the Best Original Song at the 2010 Golden Globes for this cut .
