This was released as the lead global single from OneRepublic 's third studio album , Native .
The song was premiered by the band during Dick Clark 's New Year 's Rockin ' Eve on December 31 , 2012 .
The track , which was produced by their frontman Ryan Tedder , was debuted online on January 9 , 2013 .
The song was recorded on the island of Santorini , Greece , which lies south of Athens in the Mediterranean Sea .
During a behind-the-scenes video of the making of the track , we see at one point Tedder telling the band that they 'll record part of the song using the Garage Band program .
The verse Tedder is referring to is : `` Take us down and we keep trying .
40,000 feet keep flying .
Take us down and we keep trying .
40,000 feet keep flying . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Michael Muller .
It follows kids in downtown Los Angeles chasing clues on a scavenger hunt .
Finally , they open up a garage door to find the band performing the song in a dark , smokey room in front of a packed crowd .
`` This is kind of a first for all of us , including the director , '' said Tedder .
`` The video storyline was inspired by -LSB- the films -RSB- 12 Monkeys and The Matrix , follow the white rabbit . ''
The band recruited a wide range of people from neighbors and friends to record execs to listen to Native to help them pick what song to lead the album .
This was chosen as their first single after OneRepublic 's engineer , without the group knowing , had played the song for his twenty something friends who thought the song was really good .
`` That 's kind of a good test for bands , '' Tedder explained to Radio.com .
`` If you can get guys in their early twenties to believe in something , and to be like , ` Yeah , I 'd get that or I 'd go to see that ' ... it 's not lame . ''
Tedder revealed to MTV News that despite its euphoric , ` let 's go crazy tonight ' sentiments , the song actually has the morbid subject of going down in a plane .
`` Waking up on an airplane and finding our you 're going down , '' he explained , `` having that moment of sheer panic , looking out the window , seeing your life pass before you , -LSB- but -RSB- looking over to your right and seeing the person you love sitting next to you , and realizing ` It could be worse ... the next 90 seconds are going to be pretty thrilling , and this person is with me , so I 'm okay . ' ''
A dance version of the song was remixed by Swedish DJ Alesso and released in certain countries , notably in Sweden , where a version credited to Alesso vs OneRepublic peaked at # 4 in the singles chart .
Alesso told Billboard magazine the remix came about because `` they sent a demo to me and I was like , ` whoa , I really want to do something with this . ' ''
He added : `` I worked with it in the studio every day for about a month .
There was so much stuff I wanted to do with it .
I wanted it to be still melodic and emotional like it is but still have energy .
It was tough , but I 'm pretty happy with it . ''
