This is the first single from Hurley , the eighth studio album by American alternative rock band Weezer .
Frontman Rivers Cuomo explained to Spin Magazine : `` It is about that time off in between album cycles , when you 're sitting at home , and you 're getting bored and frustrated .
You 're missing the excitement of being on tour , and you 're missing the companionship of your bros. '' The album 's artwork features a grinning photo of actor Jorge Garcia , who plays Hugo `` Hurley '' Reyes on ABC 's hit TV show Lost .
It was cropped from a photograph of Garcia posing with Cuomo .
The Weezer frontman explained to Spin Magazine : `` As usual , we struggled super hard trying to come up with an album title , trying to find some kind of phrase that summed up the whole aesthetic behind the album : Heavy Mental , Smaller Than Life - I was coming up with all kinds of stuff .
But ultimately , we just went with some random word that does n't really have anything to do with anything .
I met and took a photo with Jorge Garcia who was Hurley from Lost , he just has this amazing vibe and his expression in that photo seemed so right , so we just call it Hurley . ''
Cuomo told MTV News that he has memories of hanging out with Johnny Knoxville and the other Jackass crew many years previously .
`` Weezer and Jackass , in a way , we go back a long way , since before any of us were successful , '' recalled the singer . ''
-LSB- In -RSB- ' 91 , ' 92 , we were hanging out together in Hollywood , Johnny Knoxville was known as ` PJ ' back then , and I remember playing basketball with him a lot back then .
He was like this good-looking , aspiring-actor guy , but for some reason , he was super sweet and nice to me , which I thought was interesting .
He had nice manners . ''
`` I used to play tennis with Johnny Knoxville , '' Weezer drummer Pat Wilson added .
`` He nicknamed me ` the Albatross ' because I had the long wingspan .
I would always get to the ball .
He was n't very good . ''
In an interview with the Los Angeles Times , Cuomo revealed that some of the Jackass crew are singing backup vocals on the track .
He said : `` I was actually kind of surprised at how timid the Jackass guys were , because they do such terrifying stunts on the show , but it seemed like some of them were kind of afraid to sing in front of other people . ''
Garcia told MTV News about the photo that features on the album 's artwork .
`` I went to do the George Lopez show -LRB- Lopez Tonight -RRB- , and I think they were doing two or three shows that night , and Rivers was a guest in the previous show .
So they came and knocked on my door and said , ` Hi , ' and wanted to get a picture with me , and I thought that was awesome .
We chatted briefly , and that was it , '' he said .
`` And I did n't hear until a couple months later that they wanted to put me on the cover ... I did n't realize it was just going to be that same picture we took together , cropped down to my face .
When I look at the picture , I notice that there 's something going on with my hair , like it 's starting to come loose or something .
But I 'm happy with it . ''
Cuomo told MTV News about the writing process of the song : `` I had been married for a few months and had been in school for the semester before that , and basically I had been away from the band and the rock world for a while .
I was really missing it , and just sitting there alone in my room missing the fans and missing my band , so ` Memories ' is about getting back in there . ''
