The Stones first recorded an acoustic version of this song in 1969 .
They recorded it electric in 1971 , and it was the first song completed for the Exile On Main Street sessions .
Engineer Andy Johns told Goldmine in 2010 : `` It was the first one that was finished cause we 'd be working for months and months .
Mick got very enamored .
` It 's finished !
It 's going to be the single ! '
I thought , ` This is n't really a single , you know . '
I remember going out and talking to him and he was playing the piano .
` Mick , this is n't a single .
It does n't compare to `` Jumpin ' Jack Flash '' or `` Street Fighting Man . ''
` Come on , man . '
He went , ` Really ?
Do you think so ? '
I thought , ` My God .
He 's actually listening to me . '
-LRB- laughs -RRB- .
And then , I was having a struggle with the mix I thought was gon na be it .
Ahmet Ertegun then barged in with a bunch of hookers and ruined the one mix .
He stood right in front of the left speaker with two birds on each arm -LRB- laughs -RRB- .
I told Mick , ' I ca n't hear it here .
If I could hear it on the radio that would be nice . '
It was just a fantasy .
` Oh , we can do that . '
` Stew -LRB- piano player Ian Stewart -RRB- , go to the nearest FM radio station with the tape and say we 'd like to hear it over the radio .
And we 'll get a limo and Andy can listen to it in the car . '
I went , ` Bloody hell ... Well , it 's the Stones .
OK .
` So sure enough , we 're touring down Sunset Strip and Keith is in one seat , and I 'm in the back where the speakers are with Mick , and Charlie is in there , too .
Just because he was bored -LRB- laughs -RRB- .
And Mick 's got the radio on and the DJ comes on the air , ` We 're so lucky tonight .
We 're the first people to play the new Stones ' record . '
And it came on the radio and the speakers in this car were kind of shot .
I still could n't tell .
And it finishes .
Then Mick turns around .
` So ? '
` I 'm still not sure , man . '
I 'm still not used to these speakers ' .
` Oh , we 'll have him play it again then .
` Poor Stew .
` Have them play it again ' like they were some sort of radio service .
It was surreal .
Up and down Sunset Strip at 9:00 on a Saturday night .
The Strip was jumpin ' and I 'm in the car with those guys listening to my mixes .
It sounded OK . '
I think we 're down with that . '
So then we moved on . ''
Producer Jimmy Miller added percussion .
He had to play some of the instruments on the album because The Stones were rarely together during the sessions , which took place at a French villa Keith Richards rented .
When The Stones gave this to a Los Angeles radio station in 1971 while they were still working on it so they could hear what it sounded like on the radio , it spread rumors that it would be the first single off Exile On Main Street , but that honor went to `` Tumblin ' Dice . ''
Kathi McDonald sang backup .
She was a backup singer for Leon Russell and went on to record with Nicky Hopkins and Quicksilver Messenger Service .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB-
