This was the second single to be released from British electronic music artist Just Jack 's second album , All Night Cinema .
Northern Irish actor James Nesbitt stars in the song 's music video , which was shot in East London and Just Jack makes a cameo appearance as a paramedic .
It was Elton John who chose Nesbitt for the role .
Just Jack told Subba Culthcha how this happened : `` Elton John is involved with my management company and we were trying to cast someone to play the role .
I had a few people in mind but was n't sure whether we were going to get anyone .
So I got in touch with him and asked him if he knew anyone suitable and he spoke with Jimmy Nesbitt , asking him if he 'd do it ; and he said he would . ''
Students.ch asked Just Jack where he finds his inspiration for making music .
He replied : `` I basically just go out and look at people , watch people ... and think a lot , just think a lot about stuff .
The thing is , you 'll come up with an idea , but then writing it down tends to be really hard .
You 'd start out with a concept , but then while writing it down , you realize , that it ca n't really be made into a song .
With ` The Day I Died ' , I wrote the first verse and a half four years ago and the rest I then completed a year ago , so it just took me that long to actually complete it , to face it and say ` I 've got to finish this f -- ing song ! '
, because I really like the song , but I was just being lazy .
And it was hard to write since I wanted everything to fit really perfectly . ''
In an interview with Subba Cultcha , Just Jack was asked if he agreed that this song is maybe darker than what people are maybe used to from him .
The electronic music artist replied : `` It kinda of is dark and it is n't ... I mean it 's also been described as an uplifting song about death , so I guess it 's how you view it .
I personally do n't think it is .
It 's more about the geeza whose day it is and the good things that happen to him ; rather than the fact he dies .
I mean the fans who know more than just my singles wo n't be that surprised , I 've written dark songs before ... But for people who are only really starting to listen I guess it is , I do n't know . ''
Just Jack told The Independent August 29 2009 that this song is spoken-word rather than rap .
He explained : `` It 's still a song , with verses .
Part of it is that I did n't want to been seen as an MC .
I wanted to be like a rapper in the hip-hop tradition , but realised I never had enough focus to be competitive .
In that culture , people who get good are focused on one thing , whether they are amazing graffiti artists or DJs that practice the same amount as a kid playing the violin .
I tried to do my own thing , incorporating what I love about hip-hop , so I did n't have to directly compete . ''
