This song finds Marcus Mumford longing for loved ones left behind whilst on the road .
The track originated with a piano part created by the band 's Ben Lovett when the group was staying in a small house in Nashville , Tennessee in early 2011 .
`` My bedroom was right next to the living room , where we had a little setup , '' recalled Mumford to American Songwriter of overhearing Lovett tinkering the ivories .
`` I was in bed , hungover , and I thought , ` F -- k , I need to get in that room , because that sounds amazing . '
We wrote the song that day . ''
The Mumford outfit step aside and allow four stand-ins to offer their take on the song 's music video , which incorporates just about every folksy cliché out there .
The quartet of all stars are Arrested Development actor Jason Bateman as Winston Marshall , The Hangover star Ed Helms plays Ben Lovett , and former Saturday Night Live comedians Jason Sudeikis and Will Forte portray Marcus Mumford and Ted Dwane respectively .
Said Helms : `` We had an absolute blast shooting this video and the final product only confirms what I felt going in - thank god we 're a fake band . ''
` We 're so grateful to be a successful fake band , '' he continued .
`` It 's been years of fake dedication and fake hard work to get here , and I really believe we are at the forefront of abject fraudulence . ''
The video was directed by Sam Jones , who was also responsible for the clip For The Foo Fighters ' `` Walk , '' which won Best Rock Video at the 2011 MTV VMAs .
Bassist Ted Dwane told Rolling Stone how the song was conceived : `` We took a break last Christmas and that 's , in my mind , where the conception of the -LSB- recording -RSB- session began . ''
he explained .
`` We had two months off .
It 's the only real break we 've had since 2007 as a band .
And it was a very intentional time apart just to write .
We came back together in Nashville and had a week of writing there in a little farmhouse someone lent us .
We basically had a Mumford & Sons sort of workshop where all the ideas would come up and soundcheck or whatever .
It was really messy , full of weird bits of half-developed stuff , and we were basically just sort of trolling through all of that stuff in Nashville and working out which ideas needed to be developed and which were good songs .
We wrote ` Hopeless Wanderer ' there and that we have n't played live yet .
It 's one of my favorites , too .
I think it sonically , it really defines the album , in a way : the excitement and drive . ''
The video was filmed in April 2013 .
Banjo player Winston Marshall just so happened to be vacationing in the States at the time and stopped by .
That 's actually his hands playing the banjo in the close-up shots .
