This single features bluegrass-inspired guitar riffs coupled with Avicii 's trademark sweeping house music chords .
When the Swedish DJ first introduced the tune at the Ultra Music Festival in Miami , some Dance fans raised their eyebrows at its blend of Country , Folk and EDM .
It was even compared to the time when Bob Dylan went electric at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival , which angered many Folk purists , but ultimately ranked as ranked as one of the seminal moments of American Rock 'n' Roll history .
This features vocals by the American Soul singer , rapper and musician Aloe Blacc , whose `` I Need A Dollar '' single peaked at # 2 on the UK singles chart in 2010 .
Though Blacc was n't credited , he told Billboard magazine that he sees an upside to the omission : `` It 's one of those things where it 's bittersweet for the fans ' sake ; I want my fans to know that I 'm doing something new , '' he said .
`` But , I like the discovery . ''
`` When I was a young kid , I loved the song ` Somebody 's Watching Me ' -LSB- by Rockwell -RSB- , and I had no idea until much later that my favorite singer , Michael Jackson , was singing on the chorus , '' Blacc continued .
`` So , you never know ; sometimes these things happen , and you get Michael McDonald singing a chorus you did n't realize was Michael McDonald .
Now you got Aloe Blacc singing a song that eventually you 'll learn is Aloe Blacc . ''
Einziger admitted to Radio.com that he `` was not that familiar with Avicii 's music when -LSB- they -RSB- first met up to discuss music . ''
`` Someone from his camp contacted me and asked if I 'd be interested in working on something with him , '' he explained .
`` At first I was puzzled thinking , ` How would that work ? '
But then I was like , ` Why in the world would I not ? ' ''
The song was written in just two hours during a jam session at Einziger 's home studio with Avicii playing keyboards and the Incubus multi-instrumentalist guitar .
The duo instantly began crafting a chord progression before singing lyric-less melodies on top of it .
Avicii was supposed to be working with Aloe Blacc on a totally separate project that night , but the pair were feeling so much momentum , they decided to invite the American rapper-turned-singer over to contribute .
`` He came down with some lyrics that he had written already , '' Einziger said .
`` It was almost like a poem .
So we started taking the lyrics that he 'd written and applying them to our new melodies . ''
By the end of the night , the trio had virtually completed the song .
The song is unique amongst its chart-topping contemporaries in that its hook is instrumental .
Coupled with an already catchy vocal chorus , this gives the listener an extra `` pay-off '' -LRB- a song 's most engaging and memorable moment -RRB- , which comprises 61 % of the entire song .
The song ends on an instrumental outro , which is , again , unusual for a chart-topper .
The song 's music video was directed by the renowned fashion and celebrity photographer Mark Seliger -LRB- Rolling Stones , Kurt Cobain -RRB- .
It follows two sisters who are outcasts in their own Californian town travel to watch Avicii perform at the Ultra Music Festival , where he first premiered the single .
The younger girl is played by child model Laneya Grace and the older one is portrayed by Russian beauty Kristina Romanova .
The clip features clothing supplied by Denim & Supply - Avicii is a brand ambassador for the iconic American clothing product .
Avicii is primarily known for his EDM instrumentals , so it is something of a surprise that this Folk fusion did n't isolate his fan base .
However , it should be noted that the song still employs a catchy instrumental hook , a generic element imperative to EDM .
It is perhaps less surprising , given the prominence of Folk tracks on the charts of the era , that this song was such a resounding success , topping 27 charts worldwide .
The fusion elements make the song perfect as a dance-floor filler , whilst introspective lyrics can adapt the song for more personal listening .
This combination is made all the more natural by Aloe Blacc 's soulful vocals , which are nuanced enough to evoke the emotional aspects of the melody , along with the euphoric qualities needed for a successful EDM track .
Aloe Blacc came up with the lyrics on an airplane .
`` I was thinking to myself , ` My life is a dream .
Wake me up when it 's over , ' '' he recalled to Billboard magazine .
`` When I walked into the session with Mike Einziger on guitar and Avicii , Mike was playing his guitar chords and these words ... the way I sang them just felt right .
We ended up recording it that night and I drove home listening to this acoustic version that Avicii eventually made into a fantastic hit .
It 's a wonderful experience . ''
The song premiered on BBC Radio 1 Pete Tong 's radio show on June 14,2013 with the DJ describing it a `` complete change in style '' from his previous singles .
It was later released on iTunes and radio on June 25 , 2013 .
Songwriting credits go to Avicii and Aloe Blacc , along with the Swedish DJ 's manager and executive producer Arash `` Ash '' Pournouri and multi-instrumentalist Mike Einziger of the rock band Incubus .
According to Avicii , they wrote the song at Einziger 's house in Malibu , California in just two hours .
Avicii made the choice with this song to step out of his EDM comfort zone and produce something noticeably different from his other cuts .
`` I did n't want ` Levels ' to identify me .
In a sense , it 's just a song , and I 've always produced a lot of music , so I wanted to do something really different , '' he explained to MTV News .
`` I really wanted to make sure to do something different than what anyone else is doing . ''
Speaking at the 92.3 NOW studios in New York City to DJ Toro , Avicii said that the musical pairing of EDM and Country was n't something that was planned out at the outset .
`` The country aspect of it I do n't really feel , if anything I feel it 's more like folk music , '' he said .
`` That was more what we were playing around with in the beginning -- but when we first did it I was n't even sure if I was going to use the guitar in the song .
All of that came after because we all fell in love and got accustomed to the guitar and that vibe .
It was really energetic , a Summer vibe throughout .
So that 's why we decided to keep that in it . ''
The song 's crossover appeal was demonstrated when it became just the third tune to top both Billboard 's Dance/Mix Show Airplay and Triple A charts .
The latter is a spin off from the album-oriented rock format form and is known for its multi genre mix of indie , alternative and rootsy rock bands and acoustic-based singer/songwriters .
The other tracks that crowned both tallies were The Killers ' `` Read My Mind '' in 2007 , and Gotye 's `` Somebody That I Used To Know '' in 2012 .
Avicii topped the UK singles charts with the song .
It was the Swede 's second UK # 1 , having originally reached the peak position in February 2013 with his collaboration with Dutch DJ Nicky Romero , `` I Could Be The One . ''
The Red Hot Chilli Pipers performed a rocking version to launch BBC Radio 1 's Big Weekend 2014 .
Their rendition became a YouTube hit after Avicii tweeted the band 's cover out to his followers and it also reached # 54 on the UK singles chart .
