This Eddie Vedder penned ballad about an unknown future was premiered by the Pearl Jam frontman during his solo tour .
On this ballad there are some strings and French horns , something Pearl Jam has n't done before .
Vedder recalled to Billboard magazine : '' It became kind of emotional when we laid the strings down .
I was really moved by this song when I was a kid called `` Street in the City '' off Rough Mix by Pete Townshend .
It was such a powerful juxtaposition of strings with just acoustic guitar .
His was a full-on orchestral arrangement that I believe his father-in-law did .
It sounded like one guy playing with an orchestra behind him .
It was a real powerful thing .
To get a chance to explore a little bit of that sound ... it 's really pretty subtle , but it turned into something very cinematic . ''
Vedder told the Toronto Globe and Mail that part of this aching love song was inspired by a phone message .
He explained : `` I got a phone call from a friend , from Spain .
I could n't pick up the phone because I was recording the guitar part .
I had written half the song 's lyrics .
When I checked his message , he had said something that enabled me to write the second verse , and in 20 minutes , it was done .
That 's how it happened on this record .
It was writing the quick ones -- there was no room for the other stuff .
We 'll see how long approaching it like this goes .
But it 's the right way for us to do it right now . ''
Guitarist Stone Gossard told Billboard magazine that he thinks this song is going to stand out as one of Vedder 's greatest songs ever .
He explained : `` To have a song that is so simple in terms of the vocal melody and delivery ... for the words to have that much impact and to flow without a complex rhyme strategy - the words rhyme , but that 's the last thing you think about - I just think it is a stunning example of Eddie on his own .
There are some strings and horns , but that song , he just came in and played us a demo he 'd recorded the night before on his home four-track .
It 's just ridiculously good .
He just about breaks his voice .
It 's so vulnerable . ''
