This is a track from English electro outfit Hot Chip 's fourth studio album , One Life Stand .
Vocalist Joe Goddard told Billboard magazine that the record came together pretty easily as 2009 provided a lengthy time away from touring duties .
The group used the gap in their schedules to experiment with writing and trying out new things , such as utilizing acoustic instruments .
However , this song proved to be the most problematic track .
He explained : `` We tried to have a simplicity to this record .
The most difficult song was ` Hand Me Down Your Love . '
It was just a matter of months and months of adding synthesizers , adding drum parts .
There were sections where we thought were unnecessary , so we removed it .
It got to something like 160 tracks or pieces of music .
I think because we had more time to make this record , we tried things out differently .
The time was a little bit unhelpful .
In the end , we did n't use a lot of parts we recorded . ''
This features the drumming of Charles Hayward from 1970s prog-rockers This Heat .
Felix Martin -LRB- synthesizer and drum machine -RRB- told The NME : `` Charles Haywood plays drums on that .
He 's a great character , he was involved in recording a lot of the tracks .
He 's a real English eccentric and a well-respected veteran of London 's experimental music scene .
He 's been in bands like This Heat , and we went on for ages about how much he loves Abba . ''
Joe Goddard -LRB- vocals , synthesizer and percussion -RRB- told the story of this song to The NME February 6 2010 : '' -LRB- Co-vocalist -RRB- Alexis Taylor had a dream where I 'd written a new song called ` Hand Me Down Your Love . '
When he woke up he wrote it .
That 's happened for a couple of songs .
It 's great , ` cos you do n't have to do any work , your unconscious brain just gives it to you . ''
Taylor added to The Yorkshire Evening Post about Haywood 's contribution : `` Working with people like that you immediately get some stuff which you do n't expect .
Musicians of that calibre are capable of doing anything , really .
Charles Hayward comes from an improvisatory background , he 's very capable of coming up with his own stuff .
At the end of ` Hand Me Down Your Love ' the final chorus is a capella with his drumming in the background .
There you 'd expect the drummer to be doing cymbal fills but there 's this explosive sound with his kit .
It works tremendously well .
It 's something we would not have come up with ourselves . ''
