This is the second single and title track from Country music artist Josh Thompson 's debut album .
David Lee Murphy and Casey Beathard wrote the song along with Thompson .
Thompson grew up in the small town of Cedarburg , Wisconsin and worked in his family 's concrete business from an early age .
This song reflects the gritty realities of blue-collar life of which he 's so proud .
He started working construction as a teenager and did n't start playing guitar until he was 21 .
Six months later , he wrote his first song , and he was hooked .
Four years later he moved to Nashville and prospered as both an artist and a songwriter .
Josh says that his songs reflect the realities of working life because that was his upbringing .
`` Songwriters have a great imagination , '' he told us .
`` But there are few things that you actually pull from that are your experiences that are truly yours : heartache , where you 're from . ''
In our interview with Josh Thompson , he told us about this song : `` It was really just based on a way of life .
Working for what you have and being thankful for it and getting out of bed and going after it and getting it .
We were n't thinking politics at all .
We were doing the theme of how we grew up , me and the two guys I wrote it with , and how I was raised . ''
Josh Thompson recalled his writing session with David Lee Murphy and Casey Beathard .
`` We were writing out at David Lee Murphy 's house , which is out in the country , '' he remembered to Roughstock .
`` I think I said something like , ` How do you like it way out here ? '
It was just one of those things where the song and the title came from just more of a conversation .
When I said that , it was one of those things where we all kind of looked at each other and we were like , ` We should write that . '
`` That song literally fell out , '' Thompson continued .
`` It was like ` Our houses are protected by the good lord and a gun .
And you might meet them both if you show up here not welcome son . '
That was the first line out , and it was just on from there .
It was one of those things where we wrote it , and right away , we knew it was great .
I was super excited about it .
It has stood up .
It 's one of those songs where every night live , people just go crazy over it . ''
