This is the title track from folk rock musician Jennifer Knapp 's fourth album , her first studio record for nine years .
Knapp explained the meaning of this song in an interview with Christianity Today : `` It 's basically just a struggle to hold onto the things that have been valuable to me .
That was one of the last songs I wrote going into this , when I started to have a panic attack going ' I ca n't do this .
People are going to chew me up and spit me out and tell me that I 'm worthless . '
I think the process of writing that song was really helpful to realize that I really enjoy what I 'm doing , and I 'm not going to let go of my faith and I 'm not going to let go of the passion to do music the way I want , in case there are other people telling me I can do neither because of personal decisions I 've made . ''
On April 13 , 2010 , Knapp publicly came out as a lesbian .
As her previous records had been recorded within the Christian music genre , she expected a backlash from religious fans .
So for her first recording since announcing she is gay , Knapp penned a mainstream album , which did not specifically target a Christian audience .
`` I just would n't find it respectful at all to say , ` Hey , this is something that you want in your store next to your Jesus statue , ' '' she told Reuters .
`` It would just be disingenuous to try and convince someone that they needed to do that . ''
During the same Christianity Today interview , Knapp was asked who is theyou when she sings , `` Holding onto you is a menace to my soul '' ?
The Kansas born musician replied : `` It changes nightly .
It seriously does .
And it can change three or four times while I 'm singing it .
Some days it 's my faith .
Some days I 'm singing to God , like ` You 're a menace , man .
It 's hard to keep my faith . '
Sometimes it 's music , and sometimes it 's being on the road .
It 's a lot of those scenarios .
That song is a bit of a chameleon , because it 's all of those fearful moments that want to handicap me from not moving forward , when I 'd rather move forward with grace and as much kindness as I can -- and make my mistakes and hope that grace will follow me . ''
