As a teenage schoolgirl , Anne Hathaway performed with the All-Eastern US High School Honors Chorus at Carnegie Hall .
Since then she 's become better known as an actress , but Hathaway has a fine soprano voice so it was no surprise when she was chosen to play the prostitute Fantine in the movie version of the Les Misérables musical .
This ballad finds Fantine recalling the rich student she once loved , but who abandoned her , leaving the young mother to resort to prostitution to support her daughter .
This was the third version of the ballad to chart on the Hot 100 .
Susan Boyle 's interpretation peaked at # 62 in 2009 , while the Glee cast 's cover reached # 31 the following year .
The song was originally written in early 1978 by French popular song composer Claude-Michel Schonberg and lyricist Alain Boublil .
Schonberg started with `` J'avais revé d'une autre vie , '' -LRB- `` I 've dreamed of another life '' -RRB- , a phrase from Victor Hugo 's 1862 novel , Les Misérables , which he and Boublil were adapting into a musical-theater piece .
The pair wished to capture Fantine 's feelings of loneliness and misery caused by the destroying of her dreams of a happy life with her lover .
`` That 's one of the worst feelings that you can have , that your life has not been what you thought it was going to be , '' said Schonberg `` That 's what I wanted to express through a song . ''
Kretzmer already had a French connection having written the lyrics for Charles Aznavour 's hit song `` She . ''
Hathaway explained the importance of this song to OK magazine .
`` It was really exciting to take this iconic song , which is so beloved , and find a way to put it through the prism of film , and that meant having to go very , very , very deep inside myself to some uncomfortable places , '' she said .
`` But that 's what we do , and those are the jobs that you remember and those are the ones that make you grow . ''
The Motion Picture Cast Recording of Les Miserables was the first cast recording of a musical film to top the UK album charts since the Madonna-fronted Evita soundtrack reached the peak position in the early weeks of 1997 .
In 1980 Les Misérables was released as a French-language concept album featuring a young singer , Rose Laurens singing `` J'avais Révé D'une Autre Vie . ''
The album was a hit , and later that year , a theatrical version at Paris ' Palais des Sports had a three-month run .
When British theater producer Cameron Mackintosh came across the disc a couple of years later , he was blown away and commissioned songwriter and TV critic Herbert Kretzmer to adapt the work for an English audience .
Kretzmer created the English libretto during five intense months in his London flat , and the reworked Les Misérables opened at London 's Barbican Theatre on October 8 , 1985 .
It was slated by the critics , but audiences fell for eye-watering show stoppers like `` I Dreamed a Dream '' and it became the longest running West End musical in history as well as a global phenomenon .
This exploration of love lost is the most purchased individual track from the Les Misérables soundtrack and for many its the film 's most moving scene .
`` There 's an inherent bigness to the song a certain anthemic nature that I knew might not work as well on screen , '' said Hathaway `` So I really wanted to pull back and try to get into the fragility of the story . ''
-LRB- Source of quotes Entertainment Weekly -RRB-
