Lana Del Rey -LRB- born Elizabeth Grant -RRB- is an American-born , London-based Indie-Pop singer-songwriter .
Del Rey describes her sound as `` gangsta Nancy Sinatra .
`` Moving to New York City from her hometown of Lake Placid , she recorded an album under the name Lizzy Grant that never got released .
Tied to her contract , Grant was unable to sign another deal for three years .
After this initial disappointment , she adopted her stage name of Lana Del Rey after management advised her that a name reminiscent of Hollywood glamour would better suit the kind of music that she was making .
Though a number of sources claim name references the Hollywood actress Lana Turner and the Del Rey motor car , the singer told Q this is not the case .
She said : `` I do n't even know what movies Lana Turner has been in .
` Lana ' was just because its beautiful , ` Del Rey ' the same thing . ''
Del Ray 's lyrics were inspired by two broken relationships in her past .
`` The verse was about the way things were with one person , and the chorus was the way that I wished things had really been with another person , who I thought about for a long time , '' she told Socialstereotype.com , breaking into an acapella of the song . ''
` Swinging in the backyard , pull up in your fast car , whistling my name ' .
That was what happened , you know ?
He 'd come home and I 'd see him .
But then the chorus , ` Heaven is a place on earth with you , tell me all the things you wan na do ' was n't like that .
That was the way that I wished it was -- the melody sounds so compelling and heavenly because I wanted it to be that way.The verse is more matter-of-fact because that 's how it was .
It 's a mix of memories and the way I wished it could have been .
Just because things happened a certain way does n't mean that that 's the way that they are .
It really is what you choose to think about .
Bad things happen every day but you 're not going to be any happier thinking about them .
So I do n't think about them .
I do n't have that luxury any more .
Some people say that ` Video Games ' stops them in their tracks ; it 's that kind of song .
It 's just really sad . ''
Del Rey sung this song and `` Blue Jeans '' on the January 14 , 2012 episode of Saturday Night Live .
She performed the tune two weeks before Born To Die was made available to buy , making Del Rey the first artist since Natalie Imbruglia in 1998 to play the show before releasing her first major-label album.Del Rey was visibly nervous as she sung the two songs resulting in a stream of criticism on Twitter .
One of the most cutting remarks was by singer and actress Juliette Lewis , who tweeted : `` Wow watching this ` singer ' on SNL is like watching a 12 yearold in their bedroom when theyre pretending to sing and perform #signofourtimes . ''
Lana Del Rey and Justin Parker won the prize for best contemporary song with this cut at the 57th Ivor Novello Awards .
The awards are one of the highest regarded within the UK music industry as they are voted for by songwriters and composers .
This is Del Ray 's debut single , which was released on October 10 , 2011 by Interscope Records in the US , and Stranger Records in the UK .
She wrote the song with songwriter Justin Parker after he played her the piano chords that would become its backbone .
The song is about a relationship , in which she expresses her frustration at making all the running .
She explained to Complex Magazine : `` When you 're an introvert like me and you 've been lonely for a while , and then you find someone who understands you , you become really attached to them .
It 's a real release . ''
When asked by Q magazine why she thought people responded to this song , Del Rey replied : `` I know that it 's a beautiful song and I sing it really low , which might set it apart .
I played it for a lot of people -LRB- in the industry -RRB- when I first wrote it and no one responded .
It 's like a lot of things that have happened in my life during the last seven years , another personal milestone .
It 's myself in song form . ''
Del Rey explained the song 's meaning to UK newspaper The Sun : `` It 's a song about letting go of my musical ambitions and settling down into a simple life with a person I loved .
We had a mutual love for the community of New York , art and hard work . ''
The song topped the singles chart in Germany and reached top-ten positions in many other European countries including Austria , Belgium , Czech Republic , France , Ireland , the Netherlands , Switzerland and the United Kingdom .
