This song is about a maintenance worker who is attracted to a high-maintenance woman in the complex he maintains .
Keith told AOL Music about this song : `` My manager T.K. met his ex-wife years ago when she was the head cheese at an apartment complex in Nashville .
They had a basketball goal outside for the residents and T.K. would shoot baskets with the complex 's maintenance man Curt while waiting for Betty to get off work .
Curt eventually asked T.K. how he could get into the music business and , long story short , he 's now one of the head guys at my booking agency Monterey Peninsula Artists .
The three of us were at dinner one night and got to talking about Betty , who was just a country girl back at the apartment complex , but is kind of a high maintenance chick now .
Likes her Dolce & Gabbana .
T.K. said something about having known her for 20-some years , and Curt mentioned he 'd known her a lot longer since they 'd worked together before T.K. was in the picture .
I asked Curt if he ever dated Betty and he said , ` No , she was too high maintenance for the maintenance man . ' ''
Keith performed this on The Colbert Report , where the host Stephen Colbert often pokes subversive fun at the conservative views and lack of subtlety in Keith 's songs , notably `` Courtesy Of The Red , White And Blue -LRB- The Angry American -RRB- '' and the line , `` We 'll put a boot in your ass , it 's the American way . ''
Though Keith wrote this song himself he gave co-writing credits to comedian and singer Tim Wilson and his co-writing partner Danny Simpson .
He explained why on his website : `` I got to the studio and played -LRB- ` High Maintenance Woman ' -RRB- for the session guys and they said , ` Aw , man .
There 's a comedian named Tim Wilson who 's got a skit about that and has a little ditty song that 's kind of the same thing . '
... Tim 's a friend of mine , so I called him and told him about my song ... I said I would n't even record mine without his blessing , which he gave .
And just because I do n't want anyone to ever think I copped his song , we threw him a small share of the writing and put -LRB- Tim and Danny 's -RRB- names on it . ''
