This features Chrome , who supplies the R&B vocals on this grime/dance/R & B hybrid about getting loose at a nightclub .
In an interview with BBC 's Newsbeat program Dizzee explained that Harris and himself recorded their parts separately : `` Me and Calvin met and we exchanged numbers .
We never actually met once to actually make the tune , we did it back and forth over the phone .
It was good , we were just like over the phone , ` What about changing that hook a bit ? '
Chrome was the only one that came in the studio but it was good working with him because we 've done a few things in the past . ''
This was Dizzee Rascal 's 11th UK chart single , though he had only once before made the top 10 , with `` Stand Up Tall '' in 2004 .
Calvin Harris had consecutive UK Top 10 hits of his own in 2007 with `` Acceptable in the '80s '' and `` The Girls . ''
This was Chrome 's first UK chart entry .
In the song 's music video Dizzee Rascal and Chrome are sitting in a club of party people whilst Calvin Harris plays a bar-man .
This also features on Calvin Harris ' Ready For The Weekend .
Harris recalled his contribution to this song on the album 's press release : `` Dizzee texted me , saying he 'd done this a capella over someone else 's music , but his verse was too good for their music , so could he do it with me instead ?
So I spent a long time on it , to make sure it lived up to his expectations .
I sent him the track , and he called me at 2 in the morning to say it was amazing , so I knew it was good . ''
This was co-written by and features Scottish electro producer Calvin Harris .
Dizzee Rascal explained to Jo Whiley on BBC Radio 1 that their collaboration came about after he met Harris at Radio 1 's Big Weekend in Preston and told him that -LRB- Harris ' hit single -RRB- `` Acceptable In the '80s '' got him excited about music again and that he would love to make a track with him .
This was Dizzee Rascal 's first release on his own Dirtee Stank label .
This was the first deliberately misspelt UK chart-topper since the Pussycat 's hit # 1 with `` Stickwitu '' in December 2005 .
This upbeat party anthem marked Dizzee Rascal 's transition from critically acclaimed chronicler of urban blight to mainstream chart-topper .
However , when the British rapper first played this song to the boss of his old record company , it fell on deaf ears and he eventually released it on his own Dirtee Stank label .
Dizzee told The Daily Telegraph August 10 , 2009 : '' ' I said , ` OK , you like to be thought of as edgy , I get that , but now the person who gave you the edgiest album you 've ever put out is offering you a straight-up pop track .
You have n't forced me to do this , I found my way there myself : you should be pleased . ' ''
He added : `` It was a blessing , though , because I got to do it myself . ''
The song topped the UK charts for four consecutive weeks and was one of the biggest selling singles of 2008 .
