This was released as a single and was not was available on any album apart from the Australian release of Definitely Maybe , which contained an extra disc included with the song .
The single was released around Christmas 1994 , and got them their highest chart entry to that date .
In the US , this was released as a bonus track on the album .
In France , Definitely Maybe was released with a bonus edition CD featuring this track .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The song has spent a total of 51 weeks on the UK Singles chart to date , more than any Oasis single .
This included a re-entry for one week on June 20 , 2010 at # 64 due to the release of the Oasis singles compilation Time Flies ... 1994 -- 2009 - the first time that `` Whatever '' has been available to purchase digitally .
The band knew this song was a hit as soon as Noel Gallagher first played it to them .
Rhythm Guitarist Paul ` Bonehead ' Arthurs recalled to Q magazine in 2011 : `` Noel had shown us Whatever very early on and it freaked my head out .
It was like , ` Nah you have n't f -- ing written that . '
It was brilliant . ''
The first line : `` I 'm free to be whatever I , whatever I like if it 's wrong or right it 's all right , '' was written by Noel Gallagher about how his dad used to make him work on a building site with him as a teenager .
Noel 's dad tried to force him to become a builder .
-LRB- thanks , Nick - southampton , England , for above 2 -RRB- The strings were arranged by Nick Ingham and Noel Gallagher and were played by the London Philharmonic Orchestra , which featured former ELO violinist Wilf Gibson .
Part of the song 's melody was borrowed from Neil Innes ' 1973 song `` How Sweet to Be an Idiot . ''
Innes successfully sued Oasis for plagiarism and as a result now receives royalties and a co-writing credit .
As a certain Alanis Morissette song goes this was ironic , because Innes is famed for his parodies of The Beatles in The Rutles , and has had to share songwriting credits and royalties with Lennon and McCartney .
