Bron-yr-Aur is the cottage in Wales where Jimmy Page and Robert Plant wrote much of Led Zeppelin III in 1970 after a grueling US tour .
The cottage had no electricity or running water , but the change of scenery provided inspiration for many songs on the album .
Robert Plant wrote this for his dog , Strider .
He took the pooch with him to Bron-yr-Aur .
Bron-Yr-Aur means `` golden breast '' or `` breast of gold '' in Welsh .
It means `` breast '' as in hillside of gold .
It 's pronounced `` Bron-rar . ''
-LRB- thanks , Al - Los Angeles , CA -RRB- An unreleased version was known as `` Jennings Farm Blues . ''
The band Blue Merle got their name from lyrics in this song : `` There ai n't no companion like a blue-eyed merle '' -LRB- thanks , Bartholemew - Cork , Ireland -RRB- The title is spelled differently from `` Bron-yr-Aur , '' a 2-minute instrumental on Physical Graffiti .
Plant named his dog Strider -LRB- the inspiration for this song -RRB- after Aragorn from Lord Of The Rings since one of his aliases is Strider .
Lord Of The Rings references exist throughout many Led Zeppelin songs .
-LRB- thanks , meredith - waterloo , Canada -RRB- Drummer John Bonham played spoons and castanets .
John Paul Jones played an acoustic 5-string fretless bass .
John Bonham occasionally sang with Robert Plant on this song live .
This can be seen in the Earl 's Court footage on the How the West Was Won DVD .
-LRB- thanks , Adrian - Wilmington , DE -RRB- In December 2007 a vicar , the Reverend John Dale , who has owned the Bron-yr-Aur cottage since 1972 told the BBC news that he 'd asked Led Zeppelin fans to stop visiting his property .
He explained : `` It is a beautiful place , but people must remember that it is a private house surrounded by private farmland , although there is a footpath at the top of the field behind the house .
`` Fans from all over the world , including Japan , China and the United States , have been trekking up the hill in Gwynedd 's Dyfi Valley to see the property .
He said : `` On the whole people are fine : they walk up and take a photo and go , but I do n't want hundreds coming up here . ''
He added that however , `` We 've had more than one break-in and once a photograph was taken near the fireplace and posted on the web .
There have been other incidents too , with one quite amusing one where someone removed a piece of cement stuff from the house but later posted it back to us .
We 've resorted to painting the house name on a ruddy great boulder which I 've concreted into the ground . ''
Three house name signs have also gone missing.The Reverend was not aware of the connection with Led Zeppelin when he first bought the cottage .
He was later told `` some pop musicians '' had stayed there.According to the vicar there is also a misconception about the links between the house and band .
Despite stories to the contrary , Robert Plant never owned the cottage , although he does have a property elsewhere in mid Wales , and the band only visited it once .
