This song is about the events of May 4 , 1970 , when the US National Guard shot four unarmed students at Kent State University in Ohio .
Neil Young wrote it shortly after seeing a news report on the tragedy .
It was released 10 days after the shootings .
Jerry Casale gave us this account of the shootings : `` I was a student , I was a member of SDS - an antiwar group called Students for a Democratic Society , trying to restore Democracy at a time when LBJ and Nixon were running roughshod over it .
There were several antiwar groups .
That protest that day where everybody got shot was a protest against the expansion of the Vietnam War into Cambodia .
It was a secret expansion , Nixon had done it the night before and we found out about it the next day - the whole nation did .
They did it without an act of congress , without passing any new law or having any meetings .
It was completely unconstitutional , so we 're out there at noon , about 3,500 students at Kent State were out there .
The governor , who certainly was a pro-war kind of guy , Governor Rhodes , he had placed the National Guard inside the heating plant of the school the night before anticipating what would happen when the students found out about Cambodia .
Not only did he do that , but he waited until about 9 am on May 4th to declare Martial Law , which suspends all first amendment rights of The Constitution , meaning that any assembly is automatically illegal , you 're automatically committing a crime .
These National Guardsmen poured out of the heating plant , surrounded the protesters , and with a bullhorn announced that Martial Law had been declared and that we were all going to jail .
Everybody starts chanting and screaming and they start shooting tear gas and some of the more ballsy protesters , while they 're coughing and choking and puking are trying to throw it back , but most of the kids were anywhere from 50 to 100 yards away from these lines of National Guardsmen with guns .
Nobody believed that the guns were actually loaded with live ammo .
They just suddenly formed a row .
The first one knelt and the second one stood , and they just shot right into the crowd , shot at all of us , down the hill at all of us .
The worst thing about it is that 2 of the 4 students killed were n't part of the demonstration , were n't part of an antiwar group .
They 'd just come out of class from the journalism building at that time and come out on their way to their next class and were looking at the protest , just seeing what the hell 's going on , and they got killed .
The bullets just went everywhere , it was like a scatter-gun approach , like shooting geese .
A lot of the bullets went over the heads of the protesters and kept going straight down the hill .
One of the kids that 's paralyzed for life was getting into his car to leave campus after his class , and they shot him in the back .
He was at least 200 yards away and wanted nothing to do with what was going on .
It was shocking .
It pretty much knocked any hippie that I had left in me right out of me that day .
I had been a member of the honors college and the only way I went to school was with a scholarship .
My family was poor and I got a scholarship to go to school .
What I had to do every year to earn my scholarship was work 3 months in the summer for the university admitting new students to the honors college , the incoming freshman , and helping them arrange their curriculum , taking them through the registration process .
The summer before May 4th , I had befriended Jeffery Miller and Allison Krause , 2 honor students , and they turn out to be 2 of the 4 killed on May 4th .
So I 'd known both of them 9 months before this happened , and so when I realized that this girl on her stomach with a huge exit wound in her back with blood running down the sidewalk was Allison , I nearly passed out .
I sat down on the grass and kind of swooned around and lied down .
I was in shock , I could n't move .
The government and the press tried to lie about what happened as well as they could .
The fact that anybody knows what happened is amazing because they did such a good job of muddying it up and lying , it was amazing .
The final chapter there was that the parents of the students who were shot and killed banded together and went on a class action suit against Governor Rhodes and the state of Ohio and the National Guard , and summarily lost across the board .
These kids that were shot were 18 and 19 years old .
2 of them were 18 and 2 of them were 19 .
They lost because by law , no one was allowed to be having a protest once Martial Law was declared , and they threw it out of the court system .
I do n't think anyone wants to know the truth .
It ruins the myth of freedom in America to find out how easily it can be gone . ''
-LRB- check out our Devo interview -RRB- This became a protest anthem as Americans became fed up with the war in Vietnam .
Providing a firsthand account of the shootings and the effect of this song , Alan Canfora told us : `` On May 4 , 1970 , I was waving a black protest flag as a symbol of my anger and despair 10 days after I attended the funeral of my 19 year old friend killed in Vietnam .
I was about 250 feet away from the kneeling , aiming guardsmen from Troop G - the death squad - minutes before they marched away up a hillside .
They fired 67 shots from the hilltop during 13 seconds of deadly gunfire , mostly from powerful M1 rifles .
I was shot through my right wrist .
I survived because I jumped behind the only tree in the direct line of gunfire .
About a week later , I was riding in the Ohio countryside with other Kent State massacre survivors when WMMS radio played the song ` Ohio ' for the first time .
We were deeply moved and inspired by that great anti-war anthem . ''
Young is Canadian .
He was a vocal critic of American foreign policy throughout the Vietnam War and became a voice of dissent during the George W. Bush administration , when songs like `` Let 's Impeach The President '' spoke out against the president and his war in Iraq .
The Kent State shootings had a profound effect on some of the students who later became prominent musicians .
Chrissie Hynde was a student at the time , and eventually formed The Pretenders .
Mark Mothersbaugh and Jerry Casale were also on campus , and after the shootings , they developed the band Devo based on the concept of `` De-Evolution , '' meaning the human race was regressing .
Said Casale , `` It refocused me entirely .
I do n't think I would have done Devo without it .
It was the deciding factor that made me live and breathe this idea and make it happen .
In Chrissie Hynde 's case , I 'm sure it was a very powerful single event that was traumatic enough to form her sensibility and account for a lot of her anger . ''
Mothersbaugh added , `` It was the first time I 'd heard a song about something I 'd been a participant in .
It effected us .
It was part of our life . ''
-LRB- thanks to Jerry and Mark for their help with this -RRB- Young considers this the best song he wrote with CSN&Y .
He included this on his 1977 Greatest Hits album Decade .
This was released as a single , but the song did not appear on an album until Crosby , Stills , Nash and Young included it on their live album Four Way Street a year later .
Devo recorded this for the 2002 album When Pigs Fly , Songs You Never Thought You 'd Hear .
The album was a collection of unlikely covers by various artists .
Cevin Soling , who put the album together , met Mark Mothersbaugh 's girlfriend at a film festival , who told Mark about the project and got Devo involved .
Says Soling : `` I knew about the history , I was nervous about them thinking I was being exploitative of their tie to the tragedy .
So I really tried to do that gingerly .
That took a little while to get off the ground .
They did `` Itsy Bitsy Teeny Weeny Yellow Polka Dot Bikini , '' which I guess they had started working on at one point .
And I guess it was just sort of difficult getting everyone together and recording .
But then they called me back and they said they listened to it and they did n't think it was good .
So at some point in time , they finally all got motivated and got together .
I guess Mark was very nervous about putting out something that might not up to Devo quality , and I think he 's finally let the seer of his legacy kind of loom over doing new stuff . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Cevin Soling . -RRB-
