Mitchell -LRB- from a 1996 interview with the Los Angeles Times -RRB- : `` I wrote ` Big Yellow Taxi ' on my first trip to Hawai'i .
I took a taxi to the hotel and when I woke up the next morning , I threw back the curtains and saw these beautiful green mountains in the distance .
Then , I looked down and there was a parking lot as far as the eye could see , and it broke my heart ... this blight on paradise .
That 's when I sat down and wrote the song . ''
The line , `` Took all the trees , put 'em in a tree museum , charged the people a dollar and a half just to see 'em '' refers to Foster Gardens , a place in Waikiki which is basically a tree museum .
It 's a huge garden full of trees so tall you feel like Alice in wonderland .
DDT is an insecticide which is put onto plants .
The insects get poisoned by the insecticide , the birds eat the insect , the bird 's eggs are brittle when they are laid , the bird tries to sit on it , and they crack .
This is why bald eagles are now endangered .
The line , `` They paved paradise and put up the parking lot '' refers to the destruction of The Garden of Allah , a Hollywood hotel renowned for its rowdy celebration parties .
A group called The Neighborhood hit # 29 in the US with their version of this in 1970 .
Others to cover this include Percy Faith , Bob Dylan , Amy Grant , and Counting Crows -LRB- with Vanessa Carlton singing backup -RRB- .
Janet Jackson also sampled it in 1997 for her hit `` Got 'Til It 's Gone , '' thanks to her producer Jimmy Jam , who is a big Joni Mitchell fan .
Mitchell included a slightly revised version of this song on her 2007 album Shine .
She explained why to Mojo magazine February 2008 : `` It fits the record .
I did n't have to change anything except the price , which went from ' a buck and a half ' to an arm and a leg . ''
The Counting Crows covered the song as an afterthought and originally for a hidden track on their 2002 album Hard Candy .
It was only released as a single after Vanessa Carlton 's back-up vocals were added for a new version that featured on the soundtrack to the 2003 movie Two Weeks Notice .
Their version became the band 's only Top 20 single in the UK , peaking at # 13 .
In the US it reached # 42 .
This song is about taking things for granted and then missing them when they 're gone .
In the first verse she uses Waikiki , Hawai'i as an example .
It used to be paradise but now it 's a fakey tourist destination .
When you fly over the islands all of the other islands are nice and green , but when you go over O'ahu you see Waikiki and Honolulu buildings .
At the end of the song , her boyfriend leaves her .
It sounds like she tried to make him better and ended up losing him instead .
-LRB- thanks , nelia - Honolulu , HI , for above 3 -RRB- In 1975 , Mitchell released a live version that hit # 24 in the US .
At the suggestion of Joni Mitchell , Amy Grant updated some of the words on her version , for instance changing the price of the museum from $ 1.50 to $ 25 .
Her cover was released as a single in 1995 peaking at # 20 in the UK and # 67 in the US .
Janet Jackson sampled the line , `` Do n't it always seem to go , that you do n't know what you 've got till it 's gone '' in her 1997 song `` Got 'Til It 's Gone . ''
-LRB- thanks , Eddie - Brooklyn , NY -RRB-
