This is one of four songs on Carnival Ride that Carrie Underwood co-wrote , three more than on her debut .
She was assisted by Hillary Lindsey and Luke Laird .
It is the first single for which the American Idol winner has a writing credit .
Lindsey also co-wrote `` Wasted '' and `` Jesus , Take The Wheel '' on Underwood 's debut album and several other songs on Carnival Ride .
When released in September 2007 , `` So Small '' earned the highest first-week sales of any Country airplay single in digital history .
The song also debuted at # 20 on Billboard 's Hot Country Songs ' chart , making her the first female to debut in the Hot Country Songs ' Top 20 in 43 years .
Carrie Underwood said that she named the album Carnival Ride in honor of the `` wonderful craziness '' that she 's been through in the last few years .
Carnival Ride broke the record for the best-selling first week of any Country sophomore album in SoundScan history .
It also marked the largest Country debut in digital album chart history .
It was the best sales week for a female solo country artist since Shania Twain 's Greatest Hits debuted with 530,000 in November 2004 .
Underwood describes the song on aol.com as : `` A feeling song on how people invest so much of their time and energy into things that are n't really important .
And you do n't really realize that until it 's too late .
We 're all guilty of it , as I know I am , of just letting silly things get in the way .
The smallest thing can almost ruin my day , and at some point , I realize , ` Good gracious , Carrie !
What are you doing ? '
I have a great life , and we need to remember the things that are truly important . ''
The video set single day streaming records for CMT.com when it debuted on September 20 , 2007 .
CMT.com aired the video continuously from 6:00 am-12 :00 pm straight , playing it an estimated 66 times , the highest number of one-day streams for a single video on the Country music site .
The American Idol champ told Time magazine October 19 , 2007 that Carnival Ride differed from her debut album because `` I had a lot more to do with this one .
We had a lot of time to get in the studio , and I was involved in every process of the entire album making . ''
This was # 1 for three weeks on the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart .
On the week of December 22 , 2007 , it fell from # 1 to # 10 , the biggest fall from the top position since 1996 , when Shania Twain 's `` You Win My Love '' plummeted from # 1 to # 11 .
