`` This song , '' Jake Owen told us , `` is about one of my favorite stories of all time . ''
Jake never met his own grandfather , but all his life people have told me how much like his granddad he is .
So this song is him wondering what his granddad would have told him if he 'd had the chance .
`` My mom always told me about how great a guy he was , he just had a drinking problem .
And any alcoholic can know , to the day , exactly how long it 's been since they 've been sober .
And needless to say I wrote that song about how every day you live with the things that you do all your life , the ghosts of them .
And in a way it kind of mirrors ` Startin ' With Me ' a bit , but it really revolves around somebody that has alcohol problems in their life .
And I 've had that in my family . ''
Jake went on tour with Kenny Chesney for the first time , and one of their stops was in Hershey , Pennsylvania .
After the show , Jake says , `` This guy came up to me with his little girl , and he was almost in tears .
Full-grown man and he had this young girl with him , and he told me that his daughter was almost 6 years old .
And he said , ' I just want to thank you so much for writing that song .
It 's changed my life . '
He said , ' I listen to it all the time , and I want you to know how much you mean to people like me with songs like that . '
He said , ' I almost lost my little girl here because of my problem with alcohol , and hearing songs like this is what reminds me every day of how lucky I am .
` And he handed me this coin , and it had the Roman numeral for 3 on it - it was his Alcoholics Anonymous coin , he 'd earned it for being three years sober .
I said , ` Man , I ca n't take this from you .
You 've worked three years to get it . '
And he just looked around , and he said , ` No , man .
Do n't worry about it , because I 'm gon na be getting my four-year one here pretty soon . '
And I just thought , What an amazing thing to say .
It 's something I 'll never forget .
And I was proud of that guy , I was proud of myself in a way , knowing that I touched this guy like that .
I could look in his little girl 's eyes ... stuff like that 's what matters , you know ?
`` Jake still carries the memento with him everywhere he goes .
`` It 's in my guitar case , '' he says .
-LRB- Check out our interview with Jake Owen -RRB-
