Some reviewers have interpreted this track as a reference to Paul McCartney 's decision to split from his former wife Heather Mills and not to look back .
The vocals on Electric Arguments were improvised on the spot by McCartney .
He told Mojo magazine December 2008 : `` Youth would say , ` What about a vocal , man ? '
So we 'd go to poetry books and find a phrase , y' know , like William Burroughs would do his cut-ups .
So I 'd just find a little phrase , like ` silent lovers ' , and suddenly it was a chorus . ''
In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , McCartney expanded on how he improvised this song by borrowing phrases from poetry books : `` What I was looking for was not to steal an idea as much as to find beautiful words .
I remember just seeing the words ` silent lovers ' - to me , that 's a couple of kids in love , you can make a movie about that - and I thought , ` That 's good , I can sing about that . '
So I pulled that onto my pad at the mike and then went delving into another book - so as not to be plagiarizing someone else 's poem - and then came upon ` angels smiling , ' which is kind of nice ... they 're not frowned upon , there 's something beautiful going down , and then the final phrase : ` Do n't stop running ' - which is my advice to you , kids .
Just let it flow .
Groove on .
I do n't mean running away from something .
Keep on going !
And these three phrases were the basis of the song . ''
Electric Arguments is a collaboration between McCartney and former member of Killing Joke , Martin `` Youth '' Glover .
This was their third project together and the first one to officially reveal its creators ' identities .
In 1993 the duo released an ambient dance album , Strawberries Oceans Ships Forest , `` though the former Beatle 's involvement was initially a secret .
Their follow-up was another trance set , Rushes in 1998 .
This album was recorded over 13 separate days over a space of the year , with one track being put down each day .
It was their first collection to feature prominent vocals .
McCartney said to The Daily Telegraph October 10 , 2008 : `` I like having a collaborator .
Otherwise , I get the feeling of being an absent-minded professor alone in his laboratory all day .
I did the first solo McCartney record all on my own .
It seemed a bit lonely .
There 's a track on there that 's about 10 minutes long .
Try playing maracas for 10 minutes in a row on your own .
I was standing in the room thinking , ` That 's it - I 've really lost the plot . '
So , after that , I thought it was probably nice to have someone in the room with me . ''
The new album features more traditional songwriting , including classic rock and acoustic tracks , `` yet is in keeping with the genre-hopping spirit of the first two the Fireman albums , '' according to a statement .
