Nicks wrote this for drummer Mick Fleetwood .
It was Inspired by the 1946 French film of the same name directed by Jean Cocteau .
In the press kit notes of her album The Wild Heart , .
Nicks explained : `` It began as a piano demo done in Lori 's husband , Gordon Perry 's studio in Dallas ; the room is just magical , a church .
Lori later sent me a tape with beautiful voices on it , and Sharon and I tried to duplicate it but we could n't .
So we got all the original vocalists together in New York and recorded it live .
We brought the orchestra in for a 3-hour live session and I 'm someone who 's oblivious to being able to do anything in the studio in a mere 3 hours !
I knew they were gon na pack their little violin cases and walk away from me in no time ; meanwhile Roy Bittan 's playing piano just like I do , real simple , and that 's hard for a good pianist to do , and everybody 's watching me - nobody has done a live session in years , no Stevie Nicks has walked in in a long black dress to sing Beauty and the Beast with champagne for all these men in probably as long as they can remember , even 30 years ago .
I wanted them to feel like they were the most special orchestra that ever existed , for that night .
They walked in , played , and left , and it 's like they do n't even have any idea what they gave me , how precious it is . ''
-LRB- thanks , Annabelle - Eugene , OR -RRB- Nicks -LRB- from the liner notes in TimeSpace -RRB- : `` We recorded this live in New York , with Roy Bittan playing grand piano , and Paul Buckmaster doing the strings and conducting the orchestra , and me and the background singers , all at the same time .
It was like we had gone back in time ; we all wore long black dresses , and served champagne , and recorded it all in one room .
When it was over , I walked out with this elderly gentleman who played violin , and the generation gap ceased to exist .
I also remember Mick and I years later at the Red Rocks ` Rock A Little ' video .
He had come by himself to play , and he stayed there with me all night -LRB- in the rain -RRB- to do close-ups ; everyone else had left .
Who is the beauty , and who is the beast . ?
Which one of you ?
Have you ever really been able to answer that ?
I have , it took a long time , but I did finally find the answer . ''
-LRB- thanks , Shawna - Phoenix , AZ , for above 2 -RRB-
