This was the theme from the movie of the same name starring Kevin Bacon in his breakout role ; Rob Lowe and Tom Cruise also tried out for the part .
He plays a teenager who moves to a small town where dancing is illegal .
Dean Pitchford , who wrote the screenplay to the film and the lyrics to all the songs in the movie , got the idea from a 1979 newspaper article about the town of Elmore City , Oklahoma , where a law against dancing was on the books since the 1800s .
The 14 high school seniors decided they wanted a prom , and got the town council to overturn the antiquated interdiction so they could dance .
Pitchford visited Elmore City to research his screenplay , where he spent a week immersing himself in their culture.Pitchford was an actor , appearing in stage productions of Godspell and Pippin before getting a chance to write lyrics for songs in the 1980 movie Fame .
He started working on Footloose when he was a staff songwriter for Warner Brothers Publishing .
For a while it looked like 20th Century Fox was going to pick up the screenplay , but it ended up being produced by Paramount , who were rewarded with $ 80 million in ticket sales from the film , which cost about $ 8 million to make .
Kenny Loggins was a big star and helped make Caddyshack a huge success with his song `` I 'm Alright '' in 1980 .
In 1982 , he had a hit with `` Do n't Fight It , '' which he wrote with Pitchford and Steve Perry , who also sang on the track .
Getting Loggins for the title track was huge for Pitchford , who had never written a screenplay before and was trying to sell a movie based around 9 songs - not a popular concept at the time .
Losing Loggins could have derailed the entire project , and when Kenny broke a rib from a fall he took at a show in Provo , Footloose almost met its doom .
Loggins had to take time off to recover , and the only chance for Dean to write with him was during his engagement at Lake Tahoe , Nevada , where he was performing before heading to Asia .
Said Pitchford : `` Paramount was chomping at the bit .
They wanted to know that Kenny Loggins was going to be doing the title song , and if he was n't then we had to move on and get somebody else .
So it became absolutely vital that as soon as Kenny was back on his feet , I had to go and seal the deal , and the only place that we could seal the deal , he was going to attempt to get himself back on his feet in Tahoe , play one last engagement in the States , and then go off to Asia.So it was decided that although Kenny lived at the time in the L.A. area , I should fly to Tahoe , and during the days when he was playing a show at night , we would try to at least get the beginning of a song so that I could go back to Paramount and say , ` Look , Kenny Loggins is pregnant , he is on board . '
So I flew up to Tahoe in January of 1983 , I think .
I flew up sick , and I proceeded to get sicker and sicker and sicker while I was there .
I had strep throat , as it turned out , but I could not let on to Kenny that I had strep throat , because I did n't want him going , ` Ooo , I ca n't come to your room , we ca n't be doing that . '
And he was indeed coming to my room , because his wife Eva was there , and they had three kids at the time .
I think she had given birth to their third , Isabella , so there were two little boys and a baby in his room .
So that was not a place to work .
So each day he would come to my room with a guitar and he was still taped up , with gauze and tape around his midriff while his rib was healing .
He would show up with a guitar and he would ease himself into a chair , and it was obvious that sitting down was painful - if he was standing he was fine.I was spraying my throat full of Chloraseptic to kill the pain and taking decongestants so it did n't sound like I had a cold or any kind of problems .
I was running a fever , like 101 , but I was n't going to let on to him , because I did n't want him running out of my hotel room .
I think it was two or three days we kept up this charade with him showing up on his painkillers and me on my painkillers , and us getting the gist of the song .
We wrote the verses and the chorus melodies , we wrote the first verse , and we knew what we were going to do for the chorus .
Then he went off and he left me with the melody for ` I 'm Free , ' which is his other contribution to the movie .
While he was gone , I wrote the rest of the lyric to ` Footloose , ' except the bridge .
We finished the bridge after he came back to the States and I went over to his house , which may have been in the Valley .
I was newish to L.A. so I was kind of foggy on where the neighborhoods were .
But we wrote two verses and two choruses in advance , and then put the ` First we got to turn you around , ' all that stuff was the final addition that completed the song . ''
There were nine original songs the Footloose movie , and six of them were Top 40 US hits .
The film was released on February 17 , 1984 , and the week of April 14 , four songs from the movie were in the Top 40 : the title track , `` Let 's Hear It For The Boy '' -LRB- by Deniece Williams , it also peaked at # 1 -RRB- , `` Holding Out For A Hero '' -LRB- Bonnie Tyler -RRB- and `` Dancing in the Sheets '' -LRB- Shalamar -RRB- .
`` Almost Paradise '' entered the chart in May and became a # 1 Adult Contemporary hit ; the last single was the other one from Kenny Loggins , `` I 'm Free -LRB- Heaven Helps The Man -RRB- . ''
Another popular song in the film that was not released as a single was `` The Girl Gets Around '' by Sammy Hagar.Dean Pitchford wrote the lyrics to all of these songs with a variety of co-writers .
He knew what kind of songs he wanted in different part of the film , and he also wanted to avoid repetition .
This led to a variety of styles and some serious crossover success .
The soundtrack spent 10 weeks at # 1 , knocking Michael Jackson 's Thriller album from the top spot in the US .
After the film was released , Dean Pitchford realized that in a way , he was telling his own story with Footloose .
He told us , `` I was asked to speak at a seminar in Seattle for a film festival .
This was about two years after Footloose opened , the original movie in 1984 .
I was picked up at the airport by an intern who on the way into town was making conversation .
He 'd obviously done his research , and he asked me whether or not my writing Footloose had anything to do with the fact that when I was a teenager , my family had been uprooted - I had grown up in Honolulu and I moved to Kansas City , Missouri , where my father had gotten work , and I was really a fish out of water there .
He asked me whether my choosing to write a story about a boy who was transplanted to a small Midwest town had anything to do with my having been transplanted myself .
And I was stunned , because in the entire time that I had been writing that movie , making that movie , promoting that movie , I had never made that connection , and it took this guy who had done a little bit of research about my background to draw the line to that connection .
I honestly had never thought of it . ''
Dean Pitchford refused to make a sequel to Footloose , but he did help turn it into a Broadway play that ran from 1998-2000 .
In 2011 , a remake of the movie hit theaters , with the Country star Blake Shelton recording a new version of this title track .
Shelton told The Boot about it : `` It 's like a lot of stuff from that era - it was rock at the time , but is pretty much what we hear on country radio today .
So I knew that we did n't have to stray that far away from the original , '' said Shelton .
`` When I open my mouth , what comes out is country .
It was going to sound country no matter what , but I did n't want it to be too different .
There 's two ways to bring back a song : one is to try to make it your own , and in this instance , you have to remove yourself from it and step into the role of what 's best for the movie and that particular scene .
There 's really only one way to approach it when you think of it that way : a fun , uptempo , catchy version just like Kenny Loggins did . ''
Dean Pitchford called his screenplay `` Cheek To Cheek '' as a placeholder for a real title .
Once it became clear that studios were interested , he had to come up with a real title .
In our 2012 interview , Pitchford explained : `` I really had to come up with a better title .
So I did what I do with lyric writing : I took a yellow legal tablet , and any ideas that I had , I did not edit .
I just wrote down , line after line after line .
I filled page after page after page with variations and ideas that I had for it.About day 2 , I wrote down ` footloose and fancy free , ' and then I wrote down ` footloose , ' and then separately ` fancy free . '
When I went back over the list , I think I had four that I thought might be good ideas .
But ` Footloose ' was by far my favorite .
I typed up hypothetical title pages , and I put , ` this title by Dean Pitchford , ' as the title of the new screenplay .
Then I put the four of them in a stack , and I put ` Footloose ' on the bottom .
I took them into a meeting with Craig -LRB- Melnick -RRB- and Dan -LRB- Zadan , producers at Fox -RRB- , and I said , ` Here are some ideas for the title . '
They looked at number one , they went , ` Okay .
All right . '
And they flipped it over , and number two , and they flipped it over , and number three , ` Okay . '
And then they flipped over the last one , which was ` Footloose by Dean Pitchford , ' and they lit up like a Christmas tree .
I had deliberately done it that way , because it was my favorite and I was saving it for the end .
And they felt what I felt , which was it was just such an interesting looking word and it did n't mean anything , but it did .
And all those ` O 's ' gave it a visual kind of punch .
We all just went for it .
It sort of sold itself .
I certainly did n't have an idea for a song , because I had n't yet gotten together with Kenny Loggins .
But it 's one of those interesting words that looks good on paper - you see it scrawled across a billboard , and it sells itself . ''
-LRB- Here 's the full Dean Pitchford interview . -RRB-
A key songwriting device on this one is the use of various names : Louise , Jack , Marie and Milo .
Marie was Dean Pitchford 's mother ; Milo was Loggins ' idea because he liked the sound of the vowels .
Pitchford explained : `` Once I had cracked the back of the song with the ` Oo-wee , Marie , shake it shake it for me , ' once we had the idea of using names throughout the chorus and calling out , ` Jack , get back , come on before we crack , ' once that had been set up as a convention , he threw out Milo because he liked the way that the words felt in his mouth .
And there may have been one or two other lines that he came up with .
And he did that on several other songs that we wrote .
Like , we did a song for his next album called ` Let There Be Love , ' and he gave me a couple of not even lines , at least the ends of lines .
The word that he wanted the line to end on , or the word that he wanted the high note to be on .
So it was like somebody stepping up to a canvas and putting a couple of strokes of paint on and saying , ` Okay , now go finish the painting , ' and you having to figure out how to incorporate the strokes of paint into the ultimate picture . ''
We know it does n't make a lot of sense , but we really thought Kenny Loggins was `` punching my car '' and kicking off his `` Sundance shoes , '' when he was really punching his card and putting on his Sunday shoes -LRB- which goes along with the religious theme in the movie - church shoes are n't good for dancing -RRB- .
When we asked Pitchford about the way Loggins sang his words , Dean replied : `` The way that Kenny sings , I was just so in love with the way that his voice worked around the words , I was never really aware that they were hard to understand , because I knew what the words were , and I never called him on that .
But I would imagine maybe if you were listening to the song for the first time , there might be a couple of things that you go , ` Come again ? '
`` Pitchford adds that as he got older , he got more particular about how his lyrics were sung .
He even asked Barbra Streisand to redo a vocal on his song `` If I Never Met You '' to clarify a word , which she graciously did .
This single was released a few weeks ahead of the movie , and the video , which used scenes from the film , got a lot of airplay on MTV , building anticipation for the release .
By the time the film hit theaters , the song was already in the Top 40 , and it went to # 1 on March 31 , 1984 , where it remained for 3 weeks .
MTV played a key role in marketing the film , and movie studios tried to follow this template , enlisting major acts to record a song for their movies and producing slick videos with scenes from the movie , essentially creating a preview .
This was the biggest hit and the only # 1 for Loggins .
It exposed him to an international audience when the movie did well outside of America .
Two years later , Loggins contributed `` Danger Zone '' to the Top Gun soundtrack .
Loggins stated in 2007 that of all his soundtrack hits , this is the one he most likes performing .
`` It 's such a lighthearted tune .
It 's like doing a Chuck Berry song every night , '' said Loggins .
