This is the title track from San Francisco garage rockers Black Rebel Motorcycle Club 's sixth studio album , Beat The Devil 's Tattoo .
The majority of the record was written and recorded at The Basement Studio outside Philadelphia , the same place where Howl !
was written and recorded half a decade earlier .
It was the debut full-length release on the band 's own Abstract Dragon label and the first album that their new drummer Leah Shapiro plays on .
Been told Express Night Out about this track : `` This is the only song that I was really stoned while writing .
I do n't recommend it normally to all the kids out there .
I was pretty much incapacitated , with no sense of space and time .
I was trying to play other things and I jut could n't do it , and this melody on the guitar was the only thing I could physically play .
So I just kept playing it over and over again until it became this mantra that kept me from freaking out.I noticed that every 20 seconds in the songs , something changes .
It tripped me out .
It 's actually down to the second - if you actually go through it , down the second there 's a change .
I wander if my space and time were broken into 20-second intervals , so things only happen for 20 seconds since my brain would start over or I was only present for 20 seconds at a time .
Then it would change and I had to restart it .
It 's spooky . ''
The song and album title is a phrase gleaned from Edgar Allan Poe 's 1839 short story , The Devil In The Belfry .
Singer Robert Levon Been explained : `` Leah had given me a book of Poe short stories and I 'd immersed myself in it .
The one phrase ` Beat The Devils Tattoo ' leaped out at me though for some reason .
I read up on it and found that it originally meant ` the beat of a drum or a bugle signaling soldiers to return to their camps after dark ' .
But it 's a very old lost phrase .
These days , I guess it 's used whenever anyone anxiously drums their fingers on a table or taps their foot on the ground incessantly , they 're ` beating the devil 's tattoo . ' ''
