George Michael was trying to free himself from the shackles of Sony , which was his record label at the time .
They created an image for him to promote his Faith album , and Michael was now trying to distance himself from it .
In the video all the Faith trademarks explode : the jacket , the jukebox , the guitar .
Michael was the victim of a Saturday Night Live skit mocking the video .
In the video , there is a man shot from the waist down - he walks and he scratches his boxers .
That is Michael .
His scene goes with the line , `` When you shake your ass they notice fast some mistakes were built to last , '' referring to the flack he got from his tush in `` Faith , '' and the consequent spoof of him and his butt on SNL .
-LRB- thanks , Margaret - Buellton , CA -RRB- In 1996 , Robbie Williams released a cover version as his first single after leaving the boy-band Take That .
His version tanked , but Williams recovered and went on to a successful solo career with his 1997 album Life Thru a Lens .
The year was added to the song title , originally released as `` Freedom , '' so as not to confuse it with the hit single by Wham !
also titled `` Freedom . ''
-LRB- thanks , Lance - Clinton Corners , NY -RRB- When the video first came out people were quite shocked because Michael was barely in it -LRB- he does n't appear in `` Praying for Time , '' also from the album , at all -RRB- .
This was part of his effort to distance himself from his image and bring the focus to his music , and he did it in a very clever way for this video : He got a bunch of Supermodels to lip sync for him .
Appearing in the clip were Cindy Crawford , Naomi Campbell , Linda Evangelista , Christy Turlington and Tatjana Patitz .
The song is autobiographical and chronicles Michael 's Wham days with lines like : `` Heaven knows we sure had some fun boy , what a kick just a buddy and me , we had every bigshot goodtime band on the run boy , we were living in a fantasy . ''
Alicia Keys performed this as part of her set during the 2007 MTV Video Music Awards .
While she was performing this , Kid Rock and Tommy Lee got in a fight that was likely fueled by the presence of Pamela Anderson , who was part of the show .
The incident did not appear in the broadcast , but a camera caught the end of the melee and MTV made this video available online .
