Multi-instrumentalist/producer Rostam Batmangli discussed this contemplative break-up ballad in the band 's track-by-track production notes : `` This is the first Vampire Weekend song with acoustic guitar .
At one point I wanted to rent a Kora to play the parts I was hearing in my head for the end .
Even though this song is dark it ends in a place that 's celebratory and cathartic .
I used an 8-bit keyboard from the '80s to sample my own voice to create a bed of vocals .
It ended up like a dirty , shaky Kate Bush , ` This Woman 's Work . '
The harmonies on this song are not like anything you 'd find on our first record .
I wanted the bridge to sound Americana . ''
Bassist Chris Baio told Drowned in Sound : `` A lot of this song is played on Rostam 's VSS keyboard - you get noises by singing into it and having it map your voice across the keys . ''
Koenig explained the song to the NME February 16 , 2010 : `` It 's a conversation between two people and the way they 're using the word ` contra ' is to say , ` You 're the opposite of me . '
You can apply it to politics , culture , religion or personal relationships .
We 're fighting against the dumbing down of choice . ''
Contra debuted at # 1 on the Billboard 200 , making it the first ever US chart-topping album in independent record label XL 's 20-year history .
It was also the first album released by a UK-based independent label to reach the summit of the US charts since a then still independent Virgin Records released Paula Abdul 's chart-topping Spellbound LP in 1991 .
When Vampire Weekend decided to name their sophomore album Contra , they knew that many would jump to conclusions .
The older generation would assume it 's a reference to the 1980s-era right - wing counter-revolutionaries of that name in Nicaragua , whilst the band 's contemporaries would think of the series of run and gun video games .
Frontman Ezra Koenig told MTV news : `` To me , there 's not an explicit connection ... I think what attracted us to the word ` contra ' was the root of it , thinking about the word and all the different implications of it .
I did have a moment where I stopped and thought , ` Wow , everybody my age , when you say `` Contra , '' thinks of the video game , and everybody my parents ' age thinks of the counter-revolutionaries in Nicaragua .
It could n't be two more different things .
One incredibly serious and kind of f -- ed up , you know ?
-LSB- Then-President Ronald -RSB- Reagan pouring money into that stuff , and the other one being a video game ... and it 's so weird .
And that game came out in the '80s , too .
Why did they name it ` Contra ' ?
That maybe be neither hear nor there , but it 's a weird thing . ''
Koenig went on to explain that the album title is a concept that runs through most of the tracks , which reflects on how Vampire Weekend have been portrayed in the media since their rise to fame .
`` I do think it 's related to our identity as a band .
When you 're in a situation where you all of a sudden get people writing about you and saying things about you , of course you 're going to have a lot of people who try to identify you by a series of bulls -- signifiers , '' Koenig said .
`` They 'll try to say because you wear this kind of shirt you come from this kind of family , or because you have a song with this word in it you must be of this political persuasion.So we did a lot of thinking about the idea of opposition , and how people try to place you in categories , and how we all do it - it 's not just in terms of critics versus bands , or politicians , we do it in our personal life .
It 's very easy to get into that mindset , and I think a lot of things in our lives are trying to make us choose between these really basic things , when ultimately it 's not a good way to look at the world . ''
There has been considerable speculation regarding the source of the girl on the album cover .
Koenig explained to MTV News what prompted the band to choose the image of a vacant-eyed blond girl in a Polo shirt : `` We know where the image came from , but we 're not being very specific about her .
We do n't know her or anything , '' Koenig said .
`` The picture is from 1983 , but the last album cover was from 2006 , and they kind of look like they both inhabit the same world .
When we saw this image , we just found it very striking .
And part of it is the look on her face .
It 's not about the color of her hair , or the fact that she 's wearing a Polo shirt .
What makes it interesting is her face .
To me , there 's just something infinitely fascinating about a nice portrait of somebody , especially when she 's got this ambiguous look , and people can read a lot into it , '' he continued .
`` So we were immediately struck by it , and we all had our own interpretations of what her look was , but we just kind of felt like it fit the album and the theme of it .
It made sense to me that the first album had an inanimate object on it , and this one has a person 's face on it . ''
This is the first song that Koenig sung entirely in falsetto .
Photographer Ted Brody , who took the shot of `` Kirsten , '' the polo-shirted girl on the album cover , told Q magazine April 2010 about the picture : `` I was doing lots of fashion and beauty related assignments at the time , which I found boring .
So as a side-project , I shot Polaroids of the models as they 'd arrive , to surprise them . ''
Brody added that Kirsten was about to be shot for an ad campaign for a Revlon body cream to be marketed exclusively in South America.In 2008 , Brody posted his shots on Flickr , where Batmangli saw them .
Vampire Weekend contacted Brody about using Kirsten 's picture .
`` I thought they were some garage band who 'd pay $ 5 , '' admitted Brody .
`` But my son knew otherwise . ''
`` Kirsten '' turns out to be Kirsten Kennis , and the photo was taken in 1983 .
In 2010 , Kennis sued the band for $ 2 million , claiming the release form the band accepted contained a forged signature .
The model subsequently reached a settlement with the band and their label .
