This ballad by American country pop artist Taylor Swift is from her third studio album , Speak Now .
Taylor debuted the song at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards on September 12 , 2010 .
Taylor confirmed in an interview with New York Magazine that the song was inspired by the 2009 MTV VMA incident where Kanye West interrupted her acceptance speech .
`` I think a lot of people expected me to write a song about him .
But for me it was important to write a song to him , '' she said.Asked how the incident affected her , Taylor responded , `` It does n't really add anything good if I start victimizing myself and complaining about things .
Because I 'm proud of that performance at the VMAs last year , where my fans helped me get through it.And there was a lot that went down backstage that I will always be thankful for , and the fans in the subway -LSB- where she sang ` You Belong With Me ' shortly after the incident -RSB- know exactly what happened that night.I feel everything , '' she added .
`` I 've never had this thick skin ... It 's not like I am bulletproof in any sense of the word . ''
Taylor discussed her performance of this song at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards on her website : `` The song ` Innocent ' is about something that really intensely affected me emotionally .
It took a while to write this one .
I was fortunate enough to get a chance to perform this song on the VMAs , and that 's the first time that anyone ever heard it .
Putting out an album called Speak Now where you 're supposed to say what you feel when you know how you feel , I felt that performing that song on that particular award show was appropriate .
I hope everybody likes this one . ''
The song is about someone who has lost his path their life , but whose `` streaming lights are bright to me . ''
Various media reported after Swift 's VMA performance that the song is about Kanye West , who caused controversy at the previous year 's award show .
The rapper upset Taylor when he came on stage and grabbed the microphone from her when she was accepting the award for Best Female Video .
She said about the songs she wrote for Speak Now : `` For me , I write everything that I live , so you got to give yourself a little bit of time to live a lot of things so you can write about a lot of things , and my only option is to write about what I 've been through and what I 've lived , so thankfully , in the past two years , I 've experienced a lot of things that I 've been dying to write about and a lot of things that I wanted to say in the moment that I did n't . ''
The song takes a conciliatory tone towards West , painting him as `` 32 , and still growing up now . ''
Taylor told Billboard magazine she only penned the tune after taking several months to reflect on how she really felt .
`` It took a while to write that song , '' said the singer .
`` That was a huge , intense thing in my life that resonated for a long time .
It was brought up to me in grocery stores and everywhere I went , and in a lot of times in my life , when I do n't know how I feel about something , I say nothing .
And that 's what I did until I could come to the conclusion that I came to in order to write ` Innocent . '
Even then , I did n't talk about it , and I still do n't really . ''
