Aerosmith guitarist Joe Perry wrote this song after leaving the band in 1979 .
He recorded it with his own group , The Joe Perry Project , making it the title track of their 1980 album .
When Perry returned to Aerosmith in 1984 , the band signed a new record deal with Geffen Records and began to sober up , leading to their wildly successful comeback .
Done with Mirrors was their first Geffen album , and a newly recorded `` Let the Music Do the Talking '' was the first single .
This success would have to wait , however , as both the single and album sold poorly , mostly consumed by fans loyal to the band from their '70s heyday .
Their resurgence would come two years later with the release of the Permanent Vacation album .
Along with the rest of the album , this song was produced by Ted Templeman , best known for his work with Van Halen .
It was Aerosmith 's record company that paired them with Templeman , hoping he would deliver something along the lines of his previous Van Halen effort , 1984 .
Templeman and Aerosmith did n't click , and for their next album , Bruce Fairbairn was at the controls .
The band shot a video for this song , which was directed by Jerry Kramer , who had done a few Jefferson Starship videos and the Rod Stewart clip for `` Some Guys Have All The Luck . ''
Steven Tyler wanted to capture the live feel of the band , so the concept was footage show by a kid who sneaks a video camera into a show and films them performing this song .
The clip was ignored by MTV , who only warmed to Aerosmith after Tyler and Joe Perry appeared in the Run-D.M.C. `` Walk This Way '' collaboration .
Within a few years , Aerosmith would become one of the hottest bands on the network , thanks in part to Alicia Silverstone 's appearances in their videos .
The Done with Mirrors album had an interesting packaging gimmick : the letters were printed backward so you had to hold it up to a mirror to read it .
The single cover for this song was also printed this way .
This is one of the few Aerosmith songs with no writing contribution from Steven Tyler .
The entire song was written by Joe Perry ; without Tyler 's words , he simply wrote about how his music does the talking for him .
