According to Lori McKenna , this song is much more - and much less - complicated than it appears .
It 's an intricately woven tapestry about life experience , and Country superstar Faith Hill understood it immediately .
`` Poor Faith .
She totally got the song , she told me , the first time she heard it , '' McKenna told us .
`` And I was so happy that she did .
But a lot of people do n't get the song , and I think it 's because maybe they read in too much to it .
But basically , ` Stealing Kisses ' is like just a page from my little town here , as far as the cop in the beginning , I just remember when we were kids and we 'd be drinking a 6-pack at the end of some dead end street somewhere , and the cops would come and they 'd take your beer and send you home .
And they sort of wink at you , like ` Hey , see you tomorrow night ' on the next street over . '
It 's just like these towny things that we all experience growing up here , and I 'm sure it happens in a lot of towns .
And then that girl being married to that boy and finding herself just lonely .
I do n't actually mention the kids in that song , but one of the things that I found so striking as I got older and as I had my kids is - I live in a little tiny house , and we have 5 children , and you can still feel lonely .
I always say ' I do n't even go to the bathroom by myself sometimes , because there 's a 2-year-old following me around . '
But you still somehow have that disadvantage of feeling lonely sometimes .
And I 've had conversations with my neighbors , and my friends who are moms , who are sort of experiencing the same things .
So the song is really just that big example , a specific example of that loneliness you could feel even though you 're with somebody . ''
Many songwriters have an ability to really express their emotions and make something beautiful in the process .
McKenna explains it like this : `` I always wrote songs .
Since I was a teenager I always wrote songs .
That was like my journal , and it was always my way of expressing things .
And the thing about a song is you can take a little piece of an emotion that you have and you can exaggerate it to sort of make your point .
Which is why a lot of the songs , I feel like they 're all sort of bittersweet .
But there is a sweetness in there , but a lot of them are on the darker sides .
But I think that in writing a song , because it 's three minutes long , and if you do n't have to make every single line exactly about you , you have the ability to be completely honest , and just sort of say something that maybe you would n't say in a conversation , but you would say in this way .
And I think it just comes from most of my years of writing .
I always just did it for myself and nobody else was going to really hear it .
You know , I did n't leave my house until I was like 27 , because I did n't think anybody would like the sound of my voice .
So they were always just my little things that I sort of made for myself and kept for myself , and that was how I expressed myself .
I 've written with other people , and I 've had situations where I 've written with people that want to say something , but then when it comes time to really say it , they wo n't go there .
Like , ` Oh no , I could n't say it . '
It 's like , ` Well , that 's what you just said to me .
Why are we wasting our time if we 're not going to really tell the truth ? '
And thank God my husband does n't really listen to them .
At the end of the day it all comes down to the fact that my husband does n't listen to me .
Thank God .
He 's great about it .
He has had a time or two of strange conversations with people , and he says , ` Oh no , she 's a writer .
She makes stuff up in her head . '
And he gets it , he knows .
He knows what it 's all about . ''
Songwriting is therapeutic in many ways , and while a lot of McKenna 's songs may seem dark , she does n't walk around with a little rain cloud over her head .
`` During my shows I think people start to worry about me after a little while with the songs .
And I always say it 's so funny that they come out this way , because I am just such a happy person .
The writing is the way I get everything out , and it just sort of makes me feel better .
It 's like a journal almost .
I know a lot of people that unfortunately do n't get to do that sort of thing , and they end up drinking or whatever they end up doing .
Seems like people figure out something to do , and it 's not always the best thing for them .
For me , especially with the whole mom thing , I 've always had the gift of having , not a talent , but just being able to express yourself some way , and so you maintain your own person .
Instead of just being a mom or just being a wife , I 've always been drawn to something .
And that 's what I mean as ' a gift . '
I 'm just passionate about something that makes me feel better .
My husband , on the other hand , the poor guy , he 's tried a thousand different things and he does n't have anything other than his kids and his family that 's he 's passionate about in that way .
We 've been married for 18 years , and I 've watched him sort of struggle with that , and be constantly looking for something that 's going to keep him himself , and make him fulfilled - without the kids .
Because the kids grow up and get older and then you 're in trouble , you know ?
I think everybody has a dream , and I think everyone has a talent .
And I think the real gift is being able to find what that talent is and what your dream is .
I think there 's a lot of people that just ca n't figure it out . ''
Nominated for Female Vocalist of The Year , Faith Hill performed this song at the 2006 Country Music Awards .
Lori McKenna joined her onstage , and it was an intense experience .
Says McKenna , `` I was standing behind her , playing guitar , and when she got to the one part of ` Stealing Kisses , ' I started to sort of lose it .
I 'm standing there on stage at the CMAs , and there 's all these people and TV cameras , and I do n't want to make a fool out of myself in front of poor Faith .
And my legs started shaking , I did start getting a little upset , as far as I 'm going to start crying .
And I should n't do that , it 's not very professional .
But I did , I held it in until she got off stage , and everyone - her friends from Warner Brothers and all her people there - were sort of over congratulating her , and I just lost it .
Because she did a fantastic job on that song .
Sort of blows me away how much she gets it .
And she really does , you know . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Lori McKenna . -RRB-
