Carly Rae Jepsen is a Juno-nominated Canadian singer/songwriter from Mission , B.C. , who first came to the public attention in the summer of 2007 when she came third in the fifth season of Canadian Idol .
After being part of the Canadian IdolTop 3 concert tour , Jepsen retreated to her home state to focus on writing and recording .
Her demos attracted some attention and a deal with Fontana/Maple Music followed , leading Jepsen into the studio with producer/writer Ryan Stewart .
Her debut album , Tug of War , was released on September 30 , 2008 .
The song hit # 1 on the Canadian Hot 100 , dated the week of February 11 , 2012 .
It was the first time that a Canadian artist had topped the chart since Young Artists for Haiti -LRB- a charity collection of Canadian artists -RRB- reached the summit with their cover of `` Wavin ' Flag '' on March 27 , 2010 .
The previous non charity single by a Canadian artist to reach # 1 was Nikki Yanofsky who led for four weeks with `` I Believe '' starting February 27 , 2010 .
This piece of Teen Pop distinguishes itself through the integration of various contemporary Dance/Club elements .
This is apparent in the song 's immediate aesthetic , which skillfully blends electronic production and acoustic recordings to create a sound that is both intimate and dynamic .
It is stylistically similar to work produced by Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez , and uses an extremely catchy chorus , bubbly instrumentation , and familiar Pop song structures to create a work with broad mainstream audience appeal.The lyrics describe what is at first a straightforward romantic situation , but various lines such as `` and now you 're in my way '' complicate things and create a much more thematically complex song .
This is tempered by Jepsen 's vocals , which are both upbeat and innocent , creating a powerful interplay between subject and performance that considerably strengthens the songs memorability .
Additionally , each verse is punctuated by a non-rhymed concluding declaration , which serves to draw attention to the lines and give them increased emotional weight .
The chorus in particular is infectiously memorable , and the structure of the song smartly utilizes this , with choruses taking up almost half the song and further sections -LRB- the bridge and breakdown -RRB- integrating the melody of the chorus .
Throughout all of this , the song makes smart use of shifts in mood and intensity , making it consistently and diversely affecting for the listener.By taking an extremely popular formula and tweaking it in compelling and attention-drawing ways , `` Call Me Maybe '' establishes itself as an inviting work that easily has the potential to draw in audiences on a single listen .
The song 's narrator is obviously no shrinking violet and is confident enough to ask a cute boy out .
MTV News asked Carly Rae if she is anything like that girl on her song ?
She replied : `` I generally just play eyes at a guy and hope he comes and approaches me , but in this particular instance I was thinking this is how I would do it . ''
This song topped the UK 's first ever music streaming weekly chart , which was unveiled on May 14 , 2012 .
The countdown is compiled by the Official Charts Company and is based on music streamed via on-demand services such as Spotify and We7 .
However , video streaming services like YouTube are not reflected in the tally .
This was the first Hot 100 # 1 by a Canadian artist in over five years .
The previous citizen of Canada to record a chart-topper was Avril Lavigne who reigned with `` Girlfriend '' in May 2007 .
`` Call Me '' was also only the second # 1 recorded by a Carly - the other one being Carly Simon whose `` You 're So Vain '' led for three weeks in January 1973 .
It 's a rare feat for a lead artist with a three-name moniker to appear at # 1 .
The previous treble-named singer to top the Hot 100 was Terence Trent D'Arby , who reached the summit with `` Wishing Well '' in the week of May 7 , 1988 .
Co-incidentally , Jepsen refers to a wishing well in this song , when she sings : `` I threw a wish in the well , do n't ask me , I 'll never tell . ''
The song 's mainstream pop sound differs from Jepsen 's 2008 debut album , Tug Of War .
The Canadian songstress explained to the Associated Press that when she and her collaborators were penning this tune , `` we used the idea of -LSB- it -RSB- being like a modern-day Annie Lennox-type pop -LSB- song -RSB- , like ` Walking On Broken Glass ' .
`` Jepsen continued : `` So , we decided to add some different instruments like strings , things you do n't normally hear in pop songs right now .
-LSB- But -RSB- we were n't expecting that it was going to be a game-changing song , we just thought it was a little bit of a tune and now we 're all just kind of looking at each other like : ` What happened ? ' ''
The song 's music video features Canadian model Holden Nowell as Carly 's love interest , who in the end turns out to be interested in one of her band members .
The gay reveal at the end was first seen on MTV in 1981 when Olivia Newton-John did it in her video for `` Physical . ''
The Ukrainian singer Aza filed a lawsuit in L.A. accusing Carly Rae Jepsen of stealing her Christmas song `` Hunky Santa '' and turning it into `` Call Me Maybe . ''
According to the suit , producers simply tweaked her tune before adding Carly Rae Jepsen 's voice .
This was # 1 on MTV News ' list of Best Songs of 2012 .
They said : `` Was there any song catchier than Carly Rae Jepsen 's ` Call Me Maybe ' in 2012 ?
Rather , has there been a catchier song ever ?
Probably not , which is why the flirty track has landed in the top spot . ''
The song 's music video was the most viewed clip on Vevo in 2012 having delivered over 360 million views across the service .
One Direction 's `` What Makes You Beautiful '' was the second most watched visual .
This won Single of the Year at the 2013 Junos .
Carly Rae also took the prizes for Album of the Year and Pop Album of the Year for Kiss at the same ceremony .
This is the lead single from Jepsen 's first EP , Curiosity .
She penned the song with Tavish Crowe , and Josh Ramsay , with the latter also producing the track .
Ramsey is the frontman of the Canadian Pop-Punk band Marianas Trench .
It was released on September 21 , 2011 .
The song has acquired some famous fans .
Justin Bieber tweeted : '' ` Call Me Maybe ' by Carly Rae Jepsen is possibly the catchiest song I 've ever heard lol , '' and his then-girlfriend Selena Gomez added , `` This smile is because of Carly Rae Jepsen .
We have not stopped listening to your song girl ! ''
This returned to the top of the Billboard Canadian Hot 100 after a video featuring Jepsen singing the song with Justin Bieber , Selena Gomez and Ashley Tisdale was uploaded to YouTube on February 18 , 2012 .
Jepsen told Artist Direct that it 's `` a welcome surprise '' that `` Call Me '' took off the way it did .
She said : `` When you write a bunch of songs , it 's like being asked to pick a favorite kid .
You wonder what will be loved and which will just be my own little journal entry that I personally like .
It was a surprise that it took off the way it did , but a welcome surprise .
I think how it was written - it was a folk song to begin with - and how it is about trying to pick up a guy .
It is simple and feels good , and I am a romantic at heart .
I like the idea of being in the moment of meeting someone , feeling that buzz and that feeling of attraction that you act on .
You have to be spontaneous and brave .
I have never been brave enough to ask for his number , but that 's how I would do it if I was . ''
Jepsen was asked by NPR whether guys ever use this song 's lyrics as a pickup line .
The Canadian songstress replied : `` It 's happened a few times , yes .
And they usually think that they 're the first person to do it .
Some guys start with , ` Hey , I just met you and this is crazy ... ' It 's not very original . ''
The song was Jepsen 's first to enter the Hot 100 and in topping the chart she became the first lead female to reach # 1 in a debut visit in two and a half years .
Ke $ ha was the previous one to do so , when she sent `` TiK ToK '' to the peak position in January 2010 .
Jepsen told Billboard magazine that this got written the way a lot of her songs happen .
The singer explained that when she and her guitarist Tavish Crowe are on the road together , during downtown she 'll sing out ideas whilst he plays off some chords on an acoustic guitar .
`` Actually , the chorus lyrics came out really easily , '' she added , `` the entire thing : -LSB- singing -RSB- ` Hey I just met you , and this is crazy . '
We thought it was a nice little pre-chorus or something .
We brought the idea to Josh and he was like , ` That 's your chorus right there , keep that , that 's it . '
After a little while of production and just working together we had the song done .
It was really easy to write . ''
The song spent nine weeks at # 1 on the Hot 100 , the most by a Canadian-born woman in the chart 's history .
The previous best had been the six weeks spent by Celine Dion with both `` Because You Love Me '' in 1996 and `` I 'm Your Angel , '' in 1998 plus Nelly Furtado with `` Promiscuous '' in 2006 .
The hit tune topped Billboard 's 2012 `` Songs of the Summer '' chart .
The annual survey tracks the most popular songs based on cumulative performance on the weekly Hot 100 chart from Memorial Day through to Labor Day .
This won Best Song at the 2012 MTV Europe Music Awards .
Carly Rae also won Best Push at the same ceremony .
This was the most purchased song in iTunes in 2012 , followed by Gotye 's `` Somebody That I Used To Know '' in second place .
According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry , this was the best-selling single of 2012 globally , with 12.5 million units sold worldwide during the year .
Josh Ramsay told Billboard magazine that Jepsen came up with the song 's hook but he then chose to push the tune in a dance-pop direction .
`` She came in with such a different song at first , '' he recalled .
`` It had what became the chorus ' lyrics and melody .
She already had that as the pre-chorus in a different song that was like a folk song .
So we put that into a different song and built a new song around it . ''
