This is the final track on Drake 's EP So Far Gone , the revised version of his breakthrough mixtape of the same title .
On this track , Drake raps `` I never cried when ` Pac died / But I probably will when Hov does / And if my tears hold value , then I would drop one for every single thing he showed us / And I 'll be standing in a puddle . ''
The Canadian MC explained to MTV News that the lines are n't dissing Tupac Shakur .
Instead , he 's just pointing out that he was too young to fully feel the impact of the hip hop icon at the time of his death .
He explained : `` A lot of people also sort of do n't understand the meaning of that line .
It 's not necessarily that I do n't love West Coast hip-hop or that I do n't love ` Pac now that I 'm 22 , but that line was just said to show how new I am to hip-hop .
And like I said , I was 9 when that happened , so it did n't really affect me .
But that song in general was just one of those things that took awhile to finish because it was an opportunity to say a lot of the things on my mind .
That always feels good as a rapper , when you can get your thoughts out . ''
This is one of two new songs not included on the original mixtape .
Drake told MTV News : `` I had recorded it when I was recording So Far Gone .
The first verse and half of the second verse , I had gotten through - then I stopped .
It was getting eerie for me .
It was getting eerie .
It was kinda like , ` Whoa . '
Then the other night I had a moment and finished this song .
The third verse transitions into Thank Me Later .
The last line of the third verse is gon na be the first line on my album .
It 's gon na transition . ''
Drake told ShockHound the story behind this song : '' ` Fear ' actually started before I did the So Far Gone mixtape even .
I basically began with this record produced by DJ Khalil , and the beat and the way the strings cry tugged at me emotionally .
I knew I needed to live a lot more before I could do the music justice .
With that being said , I did one-and-a-half verses and quit .
I had stopped after I said this line , ' I never cried when Pac died , but I probably will when Hov does . '
I took a break after that because I did n't know where to go from there , and my story was n't complete yet .
I did n't have the song title .
I did n't have the hook .
I did n't know where I was going with it .
I just knew I had a place to start , so I let it sit for six to eight months .
It was my choice to put new material on the So Far Gone EP .
I thought I could finally finish ` Fear ' then ... I felt like I was ready to finish off those thoughts .
I continued the second verse and finished the third verse , which is kind of dedicated to the people around me and what we 've been going through as of late .
Then I came up with this hook that was like , ` Please do n't be scared of me . '
That song is very reflective of where I 'm at right now . ''
