Otis Redding wrote this and originally recorded it in 1965 , with his version hit # 35 in the US .
Redding said of the song shortly before his death in 1967 : `` That 's one of my favorite songs because it has a better groove than any of my records .
It says something , too : ` What you want , baby , you got it ; what you need , baby , you got it ; all I 'm asking for is a little respect when I come home . '
The song lines are great .
The band track is beautiful .
It took me a whole day to write it and about twenty minutes to arrange it .
We cut it once and that was it .
Everybody wants respect , you know . ''
Franklin 's cover is by far the best known version , but this was an important song for Otis Redding .
It was just his second Top 40 hit , following `` I 've Been Loving You Too Long -LRB- To Stop Now -RRB- , '' and it helped establish Redding on mainstream radio .
Otis also performed the song at the Monterey Pop Festival in 1967 ; this was a defining performance in for Redding , who died in a plane crash six months later .
Aretha recorded this in New York City with the Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , a group of four studio musicians who also played sessions in Nashville and Muscle Shoals , Alabama before starting their own Muscle Shoals Sound Studios .
This was one of their first , and most famous recordings .
They went on to work with Wilson Pickett , Paul Simon , Bob Seger and The Staple Singers .
Tom Dowd was the engineer for this session .
He worked for Atlantic Records , who had an arrangement with Stax , which is where Otis Redding recorded .
Dowd worked with Redding , which led to Aretha 's cover .
In the documentary Tom Dowd And The Language Of Music , Dowd talked about working with Franklin on this song : `` I walked out into the studio and said , ` What 's the next song ? '
Aretha starts singing it to me , I said , ' I know that song , I made it with Otis Redding like 3 years ago . '
The first time I recorded ` Respect , ' was on the Otis Blue album , and she picked up on it .
She and Carolyn were the ones who conceived of it coming from the woman 's point of view instead of the man 's point of view , and when it came to the middle , Carolyn said , ` Take care , TCB . '
Aretha jumped on it and that was how we did ` Respect . ' ''
Aretha 's line , `` Sock it to me , '' which is a sexual reference , became a catch phrase on the TV show Laugh In in the '70s .
Before Aretha broke through and became the Queen of Soul , Etta James was the more popular singer .
After this was released , James tried to resurrect her career by releasing her own cover of an Otis Redding song .
She did a version of Redding 's `` Security , '' but it barely got noticed .
This was Aretha 's first song to chart in England .
Maureen McGovern , who hit # 1 with `` The Morning After , '' played the part of a nun who sang this in the movie Airplane !
-LRB- thanks , Brad Wind - Miami , FL , -RRB- In 1989 the American R&B vocalist Adeva had a # 17 hit in the UK with her house version of this song .
It was her debut hit and coincidentally her next 2 releases also peaked at # 17 .
She never achieved a higher chart placing .
In the second verse , Franklin proclaims to her man that she is about to give him all her money , and that all she 's asking is for him to give her `` her propers , '' when he gets home .
This term would evolve into `` props , '' commonly used in Hip-Hop in the context of proper respect .
Redding 's version consisted of only verses - no chorus or bridge .
Aretha appropriated King Curtis 's sax solo from Sam & Dave 's `` When Something Is Wrong With My Baby , '' which he recorded the previous night for Stax Records , and used that for the bridge .
It was Aretha 's idea to cover this song .
She came up with the arrangement , added the `` Sock it to me '' lines , and played piano on the track .
Her sister Carolyn , who sang backup on the album , also helped with the song .
Jerry Wexler produced this .
He played a big role in unleashing Aretha 's talent .
Wexler said in his autobiography , Rhythm and the Blues : A Life in American Music : `` The fervor in Aretha 's voice demanded that respect ; and more respect also involved sexual attention of the highest order .
What else would ` sock it to me ' mean ? ''
The lyric `` Take care , TCB '' is often misheard .
`` TCB '' means `` Taking Care of Business . ''
Franklin had just signed with Atlantic Records , and when her single `` I Never Loved A Man The Way I Loved You '' became a hit , and Atlantic quickly arranged the sessions that produced `` Respect '' so she could put out an album to accompany the single .
Aretha went on to release her biggest hits with Atlantic and became known as the `` Queen Of Soul . ''
This has been used in many movies , including Platoon , Forrest Gump , Mystic Pizza , and Back To School .
Many believe that Aretha was drawing on her own tumultuous marriage at the time for inspiration .
Jerry Wexler commented : `` If she did n't live it , she could n't give it ... But , Aretha would never play the part of the scorned woman ... Her middle name was Respect . ''
-LRB- Quotes from Rolling Stone magazine 's Top 500 Songs -RRB- In the movie Rat Race , Rowan Atkinson sings this even though he is listening to `` Chain Of Fools . ''
-LRB- thanks , Scott Baddwin - edmonton , Canada -RRB- A Long Island group called The Vagrants released their version of this song shortly before Franklin 's came out .
The Vagrants recording tanked , and the group soon called it quits , but their bass player Felix Pappalardi and guitarist Leslie West went on to form Mountain , who played at Woodstock and had an enduring hit with `` Mississippi Queen . ''
