This September 11th inspired track was played over the opening sequence of the pilot edition of the TV series Life on Mars .
The music video was shot in Brooklyn , New York and incorporates footage from Life on Mars .
Cornell told MTV News : `` We shot it on the street there , and we did n't have any extras or anything .
It was really just a small crew and me , and a lot of it 's just me on the streets of Brooklyn , intercut with footage from Life on Mars .
So it 's kind of like I 'm in the same neighborhood , and the footage was shot in a way so it can be intercut with footage from the show , which will have a vintage '70s feel to it .
And I interacted with people on the street during the shoot , unbeknownst to them , so it was pretty funny .
I 'd just walk up to people and shake their hand or start talking to them .
Everyone was really polite and did n't know what to do .
Most of them were just trying to figure out what the hell we were doing down there . ''
Cornell explained the song to MTV News : `` To me , it 's sort of about the lingering aspect of -LSB- 9/11 -RSB- that is used to kind of create support for things that have n't been very good for our country or the citizens of our country .
I 've felt like , with the Bush administration , whenever they 're in crisis , they 'll suddenly pull out a terror alert - a code orange scenario , which I run into constantly , because I 'm in airports so often .
They do n't ever have to say why , just that it 's a matter of national security .
And with the conservative right , part of the platform right now in the election is ` Be afraid of terror , be afraid of terrorists .
Look at 9/11 - we need an administration and a president who knows how to go out , kick ass , take names and keep us safe . '
That 's what got us into Iraq in the first place .
-LSB- That tactic -RSB- certainly helped , and I think -LSB- 9/11 was -RSB- a key factor in Bush winning a second term .
To me , the song is about how awful 9/11 was , but stresses that we 've got to let go of that to move on peacefully . ''
