This is the title track of British alternative rock band Arctic Monkeys ' fourth album .
It was the first time that the group had recorded a song with the same name as the album .
The song finds Turner singing , `` You 're rarer than a can of dandelion & burdock/And the other girls are just post-mix lemonade . ''
Dandelion and burdock is a traditional British soft drink , which has been drunk in the British Isles since about 1265 .
It is made from fermented dandelion and burdock roots , and is naturally fizzy .
Turner told NME : `` A lot of people do n't get that and do n't realise what it is .
Something I like the idea of is putting colloquialisms where they feel strange -- especially in some of the other tunes like the fuzzy , heavier ones , it feels quite funny when you can drop in something very British next to ` Raw Power ' guitars . ''
The CD cover features the title in black on a cream background .
Despite its simple design the cover drew the ire of some American store chains .
`` They think it is rude , disrespectful , '' Alex Turner told XFM radio in an interview .
`` They 're putting a sticker over it in America in certain stores , big ones . ''
Focus Creeps , whose previous work includes videos for Girls and Neon Indian , directed the song 's music video .
It stars Matt Helders as a biker fugitive who is tormented by his girlfriend .
Said the directors : `` Inspired by past lost weekends ' in LA , from Lennon to Lemmy , the music video for the ` Suck It And See ' imagines : what if a rock and roller were lost altogether and never came back ?
The video is a behind the scenes fragments of Matt Helders ' outlaw ` lost weekend ' out in the Wild West .
`` Aaron Brown of Focus Creeps told NME : `` The whole video is Matts Helder playing Lemmy , if his first girlfriend did n't die and he never became a musician and was just a normal guy : dysfunctional , f -- ed up .
I was n't really into the guy we first cast and Al -LRB- Turner -RRB- was like ` What if Matt did it . ' ''
Monkeys singer and principal songwriter Alex Turner started writing this song around the time he was recording the soundtrack for the 2011 feature film Submarine .
He told NME : `` It just sort of came to me that melody and chorus , it 's quite Beach Boys-y which is something I 've been listening to a lot recently , and always have .
We decided to make it the title track quite near the end . ''
NME asked drummer Matt Helders if the album title can be read as a direct link to the band 's previous album Humbug ?
He replied : `` We liked that ambiguity to it .
To me it sounds like an atypical British thing .
I do n't think it 's a saying that people worldwide would use or even understand . ''
The song and album title is British slang meaning you should try something to find out what happens .
