Brice lightens thing up with this party track .
He told the story of the song in publicity materials : `` We were pretty far into the album , and we had all of these deep songs that meant something and mattered .
And we realized we needed something fun that people could sit on their tailgates , drink a beer , relax , and rock out with , especially for the live shows .
So I had a writing appointment with my buddy , Rhett Akins , and his son , Thomas Rhett , and Luke Laird .
Luke got on his computer and had this groove going and we just played along and had a blast writing this thing .
It has a little bit of early '90s rock influence , like a grungy Weezer thing going on . ''
Akins explained the song 's meaning to Roughstock : `` We wrote it basically about people sitting in the parking lot before a concert , '' he noted .
`` Half of the people do n't even have tickets .
They 're just out there on the tailgate drinking beer and playing cornhole and stuff .
Some people do n't even go in for the opening act -LSB- laughs -RSB- .
They wait until 7 or 8 o'clock til they actually go in the concert , so the whole song is just about people in parking lots having a party before a big show .
It was just us going in saying let 's have fun . ''
This song came about on a day when Thomas Rhett was n't feeling anything Rhett Akins and Luke Laird were writing , so the trio decided to grab a bite to eat .
`` I kind of thought it was going to be a wasted day , '' recalled Akins to Roughstock .
`` So we went and got something to eat , came back and pulled up in the parking lot .
Just as we did , Lee Brice comes walking out of the front door of the office we were at .
So we sat in the parking lot with Lee for a minute .
Lee goes , ` Man , do y' all have about an hour and a half , maybe two at the most , to try and write a song ? '
We were like , ` Yeah !
Because Thomas Rhett 's not into anything we 're doing !
-LSB- laughs -RSB- Let 's get on something ! '
`` We asked him what he needs , '' continued Akins , `` and he goes , ` Every song I sing is so serious and ballad driven .
I need something fun , and I need something rockin ' for my live show ... you know ... just sitting in the parking lot , drinking beers or something . '
He goes , ` Give me about 10 minutes .
I need to call my manager , and I 'll be right in . '
`` So me , Luke and Thomas Rhett went into the office , '' continued Akins .
`` I said , ` Lee was talking about drinking beer in parking lots ... what about ` Parking Lot Party ' ? '
Luke turns on a beat on his drum machine , and we just sat there and pounded out this melody .
By the time Lee got off the phone with his manager , we had the chorus almost completely written .
Lee came in and was like , ` that 's exactly what I need to do ... something fun and crazy like that ! '
We sat there and wrote this song with him .
We put fake crowd noise in there , and I even got the microphone and was like , ' 96.5 ... this is so-and-so , and we 're out here with Lee Brice in a parking lot party ! '
Just goofing off and cutting up , just to be stupid . ''
Brice is a frequent guest of The Big D and Bubba Show , and he invited the syndicated radio personalities to introduce this song .
Their special guest appearance marked the first time that Big D and Bubba had appeared on a music album .
