Underwood tells the story of a young girl who grows into a woman , gets married and gives birth to a daughter before being struck down by Alzheimer 's as she comes to the end of her life .
Hillary Lindsey , James Slater and Tom Douglas penned the song and Underwood told ABC News one of the writers wrote it about his mother who was suffering from Alzheimer 's .
The songstress added it reminds her of her grandmother 's death .
`` I get emotional even talking about this song to be honest .
It 's just beautiful , '' she said , tearfully .
`` It just becomes very real ... and I remember my grandmother at the end of her life , looking at my dad and thinking that that was my grandfather . ''
Alzheimer 's disease , a pre-senile dementia , was given its first full clinical and pathological description , by a German neurologist , Alois Alzheimer .
The symptoms of the disease were first identified by his colleague Emil Kraepelin in his 1910 book Clinical Psychiatry , and Alzheimer observed its characteristic neuropathology .
Because of the significance Kraepelin attached to finding the neuropathological basis of psychiatric ailments , Kraepelin granted Alzheimer the privilege of the disease bearing his name .
Speaking with NPR 's Guy Ruz , Underwood said that she doubts if she 'll ever perform this ballad , as she 'd get too emotional . ''
I just feel like I would be messing up the song if I did that , '' she said .
`` It 's one that you listen to in a quiet moment , you know , in a quiet setting and where you can really dive into the words .
So I just do n't feel it 's right in a giant arena setting . ''
Here 's some more songs about the devastating dementia disease .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- `` Silent House '' by Dixie Chicks .
Inspired by Natalie Maines ' grandmother , who had Alzheimer 's disease .
-LRB- 2 -RRB- `` Veronica '' by Elvis Costello .
Inspired by Elvis Costello 's Alzheimer 's stricken grandmother .
-LRB- 3 -RRB- `` The Way '' by Fastball , .
Based on the true story of Lela and Raymond Howard , an elderly Texan couple who disappeared after driving to a festival .
She had Alzheimer 's disease and he was recovering from brain surgery .
-LRB- 4 -RRB- `` She Misses Him '' by Tim Rushlow .
About a woman caring for her husband , who has advanced Alzheimer 's disease .
-LRB- 5 -RRB- `` The Locket '' by Lauren Alaina .
About a granddaughter writing her Alzheimer 's stricken grandmother 's story .
