The opening lines of this ode to the career of Marina Diamandis , a.k.a. Marina and the Diamonds are , `` Do n't do love , do n't do friends , I 'm only after success .
Do n't need a relationship , I 'll never loosen my grip . ''
They appear to be Diamandis mocking fellow artists for their ambition , however she admitted to Spinner UK that the actual meaning is somewhat different .
`` That 's definitely a part of me , but I hate that part , it 's not healthy , '' she said .
`` I think every song on the album is part fantasy and part truth .
I did n't want people thinking I do n't know who I want to be , and that song expresses that , '' she added .
`` It 's just about fear of feeling that you 're not going to achieve the things you want , and that you 'll do anything to get there , no matter what .
I 'm very aware of that side of personality , but realising it 's there is a good thing .
Getting it out there in a song is me dealing with it and now I 've done this , the feeling is gone .
I 'm already on my next album . ''
Diamandis co-wrote the song with Kylie Minogue and Lily Allen collaborator Greg Kurstin , who also produced the track .
She said of working with the Californian musician in a podcast .
`` I had really admired his work for a long time .
Seeing as I was in L.A. , I asked if he wanted to write together and -LSB- the song -RSB- came out really well .
He 's great actually , very easy to work with .
I really like his production style as well . ''
This song was written by Diamandis during a trip to Los Angeles , a week after The Family Jewels was mastered .
The Greek-Welsh singer explained in press materials that the song encompasses all of her fears and aspirations for the future .
`` The song was written in response to be terrified of not achieving what I say I want to achieve every time I open my big mouth .
It 's my part ii to ` Mowgli 's Road . '
I was paralyzed by fear before my trip to the States and could n't stop thinking about being a failure and was convinced that I 'd become a self-fulfilling prophecy if my brain did n't shut up and stop being so negative .
So I put it in a song .
Mowgli 's questioned who I want to be , ` Oh No ! '
confirms it .
It made me feel confident again after a shaky 6 months .
Life is just a barrel of laughs at end of day , anyway ! ''
