This song is about people who peaked too early : the popular jocks in class who went nowhere in life .
Like most of Joel 's songs , he composed the music first , which in this case was inspired by The Beatles , and the suite of songs on their Abbey Road album where a few unfinished songs were put together to create one coherent piece .
Most towns on Long Island have a spot or field surrounded by trees called `` The village green , '' similar to the one Joel sings about here .
Joel outlined to USA Today how the Beatles inspired this song : `` I had always admired the B-side of Abbey Road , which was essentially a bunch of songs strung together by -LRB- producer -RRB- George Martin .
What happened was The Beatles did n't have completely finished songs or wholly fleshed-out ideas , and George said , ` What have you got ? '
John said , ` Well I got this , ' and Paul said , ' I got that . '
They all sat around and went , ` Hmm , we can put this together and that 'll fit in there . '
And that 's pretty much what I did . ''
On an A&E special , Joel said he came up with the `` Bottle of white bottle of red '' line while he was dining at a restaurant and a waiter actually came up to him and said , `` Bottle of white ... bottle of red ... perhaps a bottle of rose instead ? ''
The `` Things are okay with me these days ... '' part was an old piece of music he had written a long time before The Stranger .
He just changed the words around to what they are now .
The third part of the song is an old song he had written called `` The Ballad of Brenda and Eddie . ''
The restaurant which inspired this song , since closed , was the Fontana di Trevi at 151 West 57th Street in New York City , right across from Carnegie Hall .
Joel recalled in USA Today July 9 , 2008 : `` It was for the opera crowd , but the Italian food was really good .
They did n't really know who I was , which was fine with me , but sometimes you would have a hard time getting a table .
Well , I went there when the tickets had gone on sale for -LRB- my dates at -RRB- Carnegie Hall , and the owner looks at me and he goes -LRB- in an Italian accent -RRB- , ` Heyyy , youra that guy ! '
And from then on , I was always able to get a good spot . ''
