This track has a tragic inspiration , and might be called an instrumental murder ballad .
In February 2012 , JJ Burnel and Baz from The Stranglers appeared on the BBC Breakfast news programme where Sian Williams said the first concert she ever went to was a Stranglers concert , when she was twelve years old.Burnel explained to her and co-presenter Bill Turnbull that originally `` Another Day At The Office '' had words but they decided to record it as an instrumental .
Although he could n't remember the name of the victim , he said her death was just another day at the office for the two drug addicts who were responsible for her death.On the morning of Monday , April 16 , 2001 , 42 year old costume designer Elizabeth Sherlock was waiting with her husband at London 's Euston Station when her handbag was snatched by 24 year old Jackie Moorhouse , who then ran out of the station to the getaway car which was driven by 36 year old Mark Woolley .
Mrs Sherlock chased after Moorhouse shouting `` Stop thief '' .
Moorhouse made it to the car , but Mrs Sherlock jumped onto the bonnet -LRB- in America it 's called the hood -RRB- , clinging to the window wipers , and banged on the windscreen .
Woolley drove off at speed but reversed at a red light at the station exit , hitting the kerb and throwing off his unwelcome passenger .
Unable to escape on foot , Woolley decided quite callously to drive forward and over Mrs Sherlock .
Witnesses said the two thieves were laughing as he did so .
Mrs Sherlock was airlifted to hospital but died shortly due to massive internal bleeding .
In the meantime , Moorhouse and Woolley managed to extract # 100 from her bank card , and used it to buy heroin.Needless to say , they were soon brought to book , and just before Christmas the same year at the Central Criminal Court where more than half a century earlier Timothy Evans was sentenced to death , Woolley was convicted of murder and given the mandatory life sentence .
Moorhouse was cleared of manslaughter but given a three year sentence for theft .
Here are the mugshots.Euston Station is featured in another song , about down and outs rather than drug addicts , UFO 's `` I 'm A Loser '' .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB-
