Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros is an American Folk-Rock band led by Alex Ebert , vocalist of the Power-Pop group Ima Robot .
Edward Sharpe is a fictional messianic character created by Ebert , who was sent down to Earth to heal and save mankind , but keeps getting distracted by beautiful women .
This is the lead single from their second album , Home .
Speaking with Artist Direct , Ebert told the story of the song : `` It builds on a demo I did , '' he said .
`` Instead of recreating the song , we just went with the demo and contributed to it .
It was written and recorded at a time where those lyrics were at their post potent for me in my life .
They still are .
At the time of writing , I was really frustrated with myself and the slow progress of the guidelines of progressive thought .
It 's like , ` Well , we 'll get there . '
I just wanted to sort of burn the entire façade and dance .
It 's the same as ` All Wash Out , ' except it uses fire or dance to do it .
With all of the problems , pain , murder , heartache , shame , and those things I bring up , especially the conflict , I felt like instead of trying to fix it or work on it within the paradigm of problem-solving , I wanted to throw it all away and just dance in the streets .
That 's what it 's about .
It was born from a really intense , defiant , and frustrated place .
That 's one of the reasons I love that song . ''
Ebert originally was going to record this tune for his debut solo album , Alexander , before deciding it `` was an Edward Sharpe song . ''
Ebert told UK newspaper , The Guardian , the song was written in , `` the post-elation depression of Obama getting elected and the two or three subsequent years .
`` He went on to describe the kind of political and personal disappointment that had descended upon him .
`` I remember being on my couch , pissed off , '' he explained .
`` All my life I 've wanted to impact earth in the most powerful way possible .
I 'm so frustrated with myself .
I sing songs and we have some great experiences .
But what am I doing when I 'm not on stage ?
I 'm not doing enough .
At all .
And why am I not doing that ?
Because of the social anxiety of being judged , or laziness . ''
