This song is named after the famous Western movie actor .
The theme from Eastwood 's movie The Good , The Bad , and the Ugly can be heard periodically throughout the song .
Eastwood is most famously known for his portrayal of a western character with no name in Sergio Leone Italian westerns of the late '60s .
He played Dirty Harry Callahan in the movies Sudden Impact and The Dead Pool , and was the Mayor of Carmel , California in the '80s .
Eastwood is also a huge fan and supporter of jazz , and is a somewhat accomplished self-taught jazz pianist .
The `` Laika Come Home '' remix of this song is called `` A Fistful of Peanuts . ''
-LRB- thanks , Gina - Reston , VA , for above 2 -RRB- The music video introduced most of the world to the four animated band members of Gorillaz -LRB- 2-D , Murdoc , Noodle , Russel -RRB- .
The real mastermind behind the music is Blur frontman Damon Albarn .
The characters were created by comic illustrator Jamie Hewlett .
The lyrics , '' I got sunshine in a bag '' are probably a reference to marijuana , or at least to contraband of some sort .
The line comes from the movie The Good , The Bad , and The Ugly when Eastwood refers to a saddlebag full of gold as sunshine in a bag .
The reason the song is called Clint Eastwood is because of the strange harmonica-like instrument used in the background , which is called a melodica .
It is a keyboard instrument that is played by blowing through a tube and pressing its keys .
Damon Albarn of Gorillaz plays it throughout the track , and he thought it sounded a lot like the score to the Clint Eastwood 's movie A Fistful of Dollars.Also , Clint Eastwood is the name of a Jamaican Reggae artist who the band heard about when they were recording the album in Jamaica .
This garnered the band three MTV Video Music Award nominations , so they created an animated acceptance speech to continue the theme of cartoon band members .
Unfortunately , they spent tens of thousands of dollars on a speech they never used , because they lost in all three categories .
Albarn sang the chorus .
Del Tha Funkee Homosapien rapped the verses .
Seven million global sales of the Gorillaz album earned the group an entry in The Guinness Book of Records as the world 's most successful virtual band .
