This dancefloor stormer is the second single from French DJ David Guetta 's fourth studio album One Love .
When this reached # 1 on the UK singles chart , Guetta achieved the rare feat of replacing himself at the top position as he co-wrote and is co-produced the previous chart-topper , The Black Peas ' `` I Got ta Feelin ' . ''
Guetta also became the first Frenchman to achieve more than one # 1 hit in the UK .
The song topped the Eurochart Hot 100 singles for six weeks .
It also reached # 1 in five individual European countries plus Australia , New Zealand , and Canada .
Before this track charted high on the US charts , dance music was a niche genre in the US .
This song changed all that , Guetta told The Guardian June 1 , 2010 : `` When I recorded Sexy Bitch with Akon , his label said : ` You 're going to have to adapt yourself to the American market .
What we 've done wo n't work in the US because of the style of the beat . '
I told them they were wrong . ''
Guetta 's refusal to compromise paid off , and the song went to # 5 on the Hot 100 .
`` At the time the four-to-the-floor beat did n't really exist in the charts , but now everyone is taking that direction .
It happened fast , and now I 've met almost every artist in the US , '' said Guetta .
This song features American-Sengalese R&B singer Akon .
Their collaboration came about via a chance encounter , after a gig in the English town of Swindon for BBC Radio 1 .
Guetta and Akon looked at each other after the set and said , `` instead of going out lets hire a studio right now . ''
They went ahead and recorded this turbo-charged track .
A radio friendly version of the song has also been produced with the title and lyrics modified to `` Sexy Chick . ''
Guetta recalled to Billboard magazine how he hooked up with Akon on this track : `` I played a festival in the UK , and after I got off the stage , Akon was standing there .
He said ` Love Is Gone ' was one of his favorite songs , and he wanted to work with me .
So many times , artists say they want to work with you and then it never happens , so I told him if he was serious , we should go get a bite to eat and then go the studio and make it happen .
And in one night , we had ` Sexy Bitch . ' ''
