This is a track from MDNA , the twelfth studio album by Madonna .
The high-energy dance number finds the singer cooing about love being like a drug .
-LRB- `` I need to dance / It feels like a drug / I ca n't get enough / And it fits like a glove / I 'm addicted to your love . '' -RRB- .
Other songs about being addicted to love , in which the singer compares the rush of hormones with narcotics include Roxy Music 's `` Love Is The Drug , '' Robert Palmer 's `` Addicted To Love '' and Huey Lewis & the News ' `` I Want a New Drug . ''
Italian house music mastermind Benny Benassi produced the song with his cousin Alle Benassi .
During their recording sessions , Madonna had to communicate with the Italian-speaking Benny via his English-speaking cousin .
Benny explained to Italian newspaper La Stampa that Madonna told the Benassis that she chose them as , `` this record is meant to be a declaration of love to the world of disco , in which she was born .
An album that gathers together all the styles and atmospheres that have characterized international night life over the last ten years .
And to her , we represent Italian Dance music , immediately recognizable , the one ` made in Reggio Emilia ' in which melody is the vital element . ''
Madonna has broken countless records throughout her career but here 's one of her more forgettable ones .
After MDNA topped the Billboard 200 in its first week , shifting 359,000 copies , the album 's sales slipped 86.7 % to 48,000 in its second seven days in the stores .
This narrowly beat Lady Gaga 's previous record second week drop of 84.27 % , which she set in June 2011 when Born This Way went from 1.11 million during its first seven days to 174,000 the following week .
The reason for MDNA 's plummeting numbers is that its first week 's sales were enhanced by the bundling of the album with concert tickets .
At the song 's finale the singer chants the album title over and over , a play on words of her name -LRB- MaDoNnA -RRB- and MDMA , which , is the non-family-friendly club drug also known as ecstasy .
So why did Madonna end up naming her record after a class-A drug ?
Martin Solveig , who produced several of the MDNA tracks revealed to New York Post that it was `` Give Me All Your Luvin ' '' collaborator M.I.A. who suggested the album title to Madonna , noting : `` We were having a lot of fun with the initials .
M.I.A. said , ` You should call your album ` MDNA ' because it would be a good abbreviation and spelling of your name . '
Then we realized that there were actually many different possibilities of understanding for those initials -- the most important being the DNA of Madonna .
There is of course no intention of making the promotion of drugs .
Except for the harmless and pure exciting drugs : like music . ''
When MDNA became Madonna 's twelfth chart-topping album in the UK , she overtook Elvis Presley to become the solo artist with most # 1 LPs .
