On Garth Brooks : The Hits Garth says : '' ` Friends in Low Places ' was the last demo session I ever did as a singer .
The demo was for Bud Lee and Dewayne Blackwell .
I sang the session out in Hendersonville , and for the next 2 weeks the chorus to this song kept running through my head .
I knew it would be a year and a half before the release of No Fences because Garth Brooks was just getting ready to be released .
I asked Bud Lee and Dewayne if I could hold onto it and , without a blink of an eye , they both said yes .
Putting that kind of faith into an unknown artist is unheard of .
Thanks Bud and Dewayne for believing in me . ''
-LRB- thanks , Alice - Winston-Salem , NC -RRB- Mark Chesnutt recorded a more down-tempo version of this song almost a year before Garth Brooks did , though Chesnutt 's version was not a single .
Chesnutt 's appears on his album Too Cold at Home .
-LRB- thanks , Beau - Phoenix , AZ -RRB- Garth Brooks closed the last ever episode of The Tonight Show to be hosted by Jay Leno with a performance of this song -LRB- Leno had hosted the program for 22 years -RRB- .
Brooks also sang `` The Dance '' on the show .
This ballad about a cowboy who turns up at the engagement party or wedding reception of an old flame is a crowd pleaser .
Brooks introduces it with a four note arpeggio on his acoustic guitar , which inevitably brings roars of applause .
After the second verse he invites the audience - the friends in low places - to sing the mysterious third verse - which is only ever performed live , and which contains - by 21st Century standards - an extremely mild expletive .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB- The Stories Behind Country Music 's All-Time Greatest 100 Songs , Bud Lee explained that he got the title one day when he and some fellow Nashville songwriters -LRB- including his writing partner Dewayne Blackwell -RRB- were having lunch at a restaurant called Tavern on the Row .
When the check came , Lee realized he did n't have any money , and said not to worry because `` I have friends in low places .
I know the cook . ''
