This was the first single released by the UK singer-songwriter Ellie Goulding from Halycon Days , which was her repacked edition of her sophomore album .
The re-issue , featuring ten additional tracks , was made available less than a year after Halcyon 's release .
This was originally demoed by Leona Lewis in 2011 for her Glassheart album , but the X factor alumna scrapped the tune when the project was retooled to include more ballads .
Lewis told Pop Justice that she does n't regret giving away the song .
`` Actually , I 've recorded quite a few songs that other artists have done really well with , '' she said , referring to having also originally recorded Rihanna 's `` We Found Love . ''
`` They should all , clearly , buy me Christmas presents , '' Lewis joked , adding : `` The thing is , if I had released ` Burn ' , I do n't think it would have gone on to do as well as Ellie 's version .
It would n't have worked for me .
It just would n't have .
It was meant to be hers , I 'm glad she did it , and I think she did it really well .
I really like Ellie Goulding , I 'm a big fan . ''
This blazed to the top of the UK singles charts , Ellie Goulding 's first # 1 single in her native country .
Her previous highest charting song was her cover of Elton John 's `` Your Song , '' which peaked at # 2 in 2010 .
Ellie Goulding is a talented lyricist - she had a book deal for her poetry before the music took off .
Speaking to The Observer the English singer explained how her love for words matches up with this song 's imprecise sentiments .
Goulding explained that it 's a pop song .
`` Probably the most poppy song I 've released , '' she said .
`` But it 's all me .
I wanted to release ` Burn , ' I loved it , even if it is a vague sentiment .
I think it 's a truly great song . ''
`` It 's a tough one , because if you have that one song that catapults you , and takes you to a level where you can perform the songs that are really true to your heart , really vulnerable , really deep , whatever , '' she added .
`` If that one song gets you to a place where you can fulfill what you want to fulfill as an artist . ''
The song was written by Goulding with OneRepublic 's Ryan Tedder -LRB- Adele , Beyoncé -RRB- , Noel Zancenella -LRB- Demi Lovato -RRB- and Brent Kutzle -LRB- OneRepublic 's bassist -RRB- .
It was produced by Greg Kurstin -LRB- Kelly Clarkson , Pink -RRB- .
`` It 's something different for me , '' Goulding enthused to Radio.com .
`` It has a different rhythm , it 's a different kind of vibe and I really enjoy performing it and singing it .
The accompanying music video was directed by Mike Sharpe -LRB- Cher Lloyd , Depeche Mode -RRB- .
It sees Goulding performing the tune on an airstrip , as giant globes illuminate the empty field adjacent to the runway .
As the sun sets a group of young people plant lights to brighten up the space for an airport dance party .
`` I did a Vine video where I got all of my fans to do their own interpretation of ` Burn ' and what the song meant to them , '' explained Goulding to Radio.com .
`` Then I did my own video featuring lots of kids wanting to be in a music video , and then -LRB- multiply -RRB- them by like a thousand .
We did it on an airstrip .
It was just a bunch of us having fun , and that 's kind of what I wanted to do . ''
The original Halcyon album contained much dark lyrical content , a testament to Goulding 's break-up with BBC Radio 1 DJ Greg James .
However , the ten new tracks she recorded for Halcyon Days were notable for their vibrancy and joy .
`` I wanted to do that because I needed a closure on that album , '' Goulding explained to Q magazine .
`` I wrote that album about someone that 's not in my life any more .
And I felt there was something missing on the album -- the silver lining , the calm after the storm .
So these songs are just my absolute love of pop music .
It made me happy that I got to be so absolutely disgustingly brutally honest with Halcyon .
And then Halcyon Days is just my love of music again . ''
Halcyon Days reached # 1 on the UK album chart on January 5 , 2014 , 65 weeks after the original collection was officially released .
