In our interview with Scorpions guitarist Rudolf Schenker , he said : `` I think ` Rock You Like A Hurricane ' is a perfect Rock anthem , which talks about attitude and sexuality .
It 's very important to recognize the tension between the verses and the chorus .
I think Klaus -LRB- Meine -RRB- went over the lyrics around 8 or 9 times because the first lyrics of the song went something like ` blah blah blah blah . '
And we said , ` No !
The song is not feeling right . '
But at the 9th or 10th time , it came .
The lyric goes : ` The bitch is hungry , she needs to tell , so give her inches and feed her well . '
This was the tension between the ` Rock You Like A Hurricane ' chorus , and the words to the verses .
This is what makes the song great .
And the funny thing is , the girls , when they 're talking about ` Rock You Like A Hurricane , ' they say , ` Oh , I love your song ` Rock Me Like A Hurricane . ''
The video was directed by David Mallet , who had done AC/DC 's `` You Shook Me All Night Long '' and Billy Idol 's `` White Wedding . ''
Rudolf Schenker credits him with capturing the essence of the Scorpions , saying in I Want My MTV , `` He said , ` Do n't be serious , let 's get crazy . '
That video is about attitude , craziness , and sexuality .
That 's how we survived into the video generation . ''
This song is played in Adam Sandler 's film Little Nicky during the scene when Nicky -LRB- played by Sandler -RRB- , upon returning to Hell , says to his mother , `` I 'm gon na rock that place like a hurricane ! ''
-LRB- thanks , Donovan Berry - El Dorado , AR -RRB- The video for this song , which features a leopard , a black panther , women wearing next-to-nothing , and the band inside a makeshift cage which is being rocked back and forth by the crowd outside , was targeted by Tipper Gore in an interview about her reasons behind co-founding the PMRC -LRB- Parents Music Resource Center -RRB- .
Stated Gore , in an interview with Gary James , `` At that time , there was Van Halen 's ` Hot For Teacher , ' Motley Crue 's ` Looks That Kill , ' The Scorpions ' ` Rock You Like A Hurricane ' - I mean , there were some very violent images .
Through the eyes of a 6 - or 8-year-old , when they see these scantily clad women kind of rounded up by the band members and put in cages , and there 's whips , and there 's a sort of menace and there 's a sort of a sexuality , they pick up on that .
`` The PMRC was founded in 1985 by four wives of powerful political men .
They became known as the `` Washington Wives . ''
Their objective was to have record companies voluntarily place warning labels on records that contained sexually explicit or violent lyrics or images , or which were suggestive of drug use .
Although many recording artists testified against the use of any labels on their material , citing their rights to freedom of speech and no censorship , the Recording Industry Association of America -LRB- RIAA -RRB- began placing warning labels on its merchandise , and continues to do so .
The RIAA represents the US recording industry , and count among its members record labels and distributors responsible for the creation and distribution of 90 % of recorded music sold there .
This song is played at the home games of the National Hockey League 's Carolina Hurricanes as they take the ice .
It was Number 31 in the 2006 installment of VH1 's `` 40 Greatest Metal Songs , '' and is considered as one of the most influential rock anthems in history .
The Scorpions are by far the most successful German Rock band in America and England .
Says Schenker : `` In the beginning of our career , we had a problem in Germany because nobody expects a German band to play Rock music .
With Rock music , there are more bands from England or America , which are more exotic than the Scorpions , who are from Germany .
But when we went to America in ' 79 , we became the exotic ones .
They said , ` Hey , what kind of crazy guys are these ? '
-LRB- laughs -RRB- We were already exotic , with a different view , and we also play our Rock music with a little bit of an ethnic touch .
You 'll notice that Americans come from the blues side , whereas we come from the classical side , which is different . ''
