This was released as the third promotional single from American dance rock band Cobra Starship 's fourth studio album , Night Shades .
The track was written and produced by Norwegian production team Stargate and features Pittsburgh MC Mac Miller .
Mac Miller recorded his contribution before the commercial success of his Blue Slide Park album .
Despite having the opportunity to add a more famous rapper to the track , Saporta chose to go with the then little known MC .
`` We worked on the track with Stargate and they 're totally hooked up , '' he revealed to The Boombox .
`` They had a big name rapper that they wanted to get on the track .
My vibe was like , ' I feel like everyone has used the same big name rappers all the time , ' and I just wanted to get someone who was fresh .
I was already a Mac Miller fan .
I heard ` Let 'Em In , ' ` Knock , Knock . '
I love -LSB- those -RSB- song -LSB- s -RSB- , so that 's why I wanted him on the record . ''
The song 's music video finds Cobra Starship helping old folks across the street and other assorted good deeds , only to end getting the finger themselves .
Mac Miller could n't make the shoot , and filmed his parts whilst on tour .
Saporta explained the clip 's concept to MTV News : `` We definitely did n't want the video to be angsty ; a lot of people hear the title ` Middle Finger ' and they think it 's a mean or angry song , it 's not about that , it 's about letting go and having fun ... and I think that 's the vibe we wanted to have with the video , so , we thought it would be funny if old ladies gave us the finger . ''
Night Shades tells a love story about a boy who is still enamored with his broken-hearted ex-girlfriend .
This song finds the boy trying to forget his former beau in a club and getting himself drunk .
Frontman Gabe Saporta told Billboard magazine that the album allows listeners to be privy to his romantic turmoil .
He explained his job became `` my world , '' and the aftermath of Cobra Starship 's successful Hot Mess , `` caused me to lose my girlfriend , who I had been with since before Cobra started . ''
Saporta told Billboard magazine : `` The song is kind of like , fun , cheeky , screw-you-haters vibe . ''
Miller 's rhymes contributed to the song 's laid-back vibe .
Said Saporta to MTV News : `` That 's actually the first time I met him , when he was he came to do his rap for ` Middle Finger . '
He was super chill , super laid-back , he wrote his stuff there in the studio .
It was good vibes , man .
It gives the song a totally different flavor , '' he added , `` and we definitely did that consciously .
Most pop songs right now are like straight-up bangers , so we wanted to do something that might stand out a little bit and be a little more down-tempo . ''
