Frontman Adam Duritz in an interview on Ryan 's Smashing Life told the story of how he came to write this : `` I started writing it a few years ago sometime during the latter end of the long touring period that followed Hard Candy -LRB- 2002-2005 -RRB- , probably around mid-2005 .
It fascinated me that I 'd written four entire albums worth of reasons why any sane woman should stay as far away from me as possible and that THAT was somehow still ` romantic . '
I wanted to write a song about leaving someone that alternated between honest sad feelings about the loss and brutally honest admissions about the damage done .
However honest my regrets have been and however much I ` did the right thing . '
I do n't cheat .
There 's still no changing the fact that people I cared about were hurt very deeply .
So I wanted to write lyrics that drew you in with the honest beauty of the reminiscence and then punched you in the face with the truth about my own culpability .
So in the first verse : ` You watch the sky/It 's a pale parade of passing clouds/That cover the bed upon which we laid in the dark/And the memories that I made of a laughing girl/But you 're just my toy and I ca n't stop playing with you baby.Or in the last verse : ' I watch all of the same parades/As they pass on the days that you wish you 'd stayed/But all this pain gets me high/And I get off and you know why . '
It pulls you in and then punches you and both sides are just statements of honesty .
They 're contradictory but they 're still true .
And that 's why the ` Can ' in the chorus has a ` t ' on the end of it .
You 'd almost always expect the line to be ` You Can Count On Me ' but it 's not .
No one ever says ` You Ca n't Count On Me ' because it 's not a very nice thing to say about yourself .
It 's also not as ` hit single ' - y in people 's minds .
I know this because people actually suggested removing the ` t ' .
I know some of them were joking but not all of them . ''
Finally Duritz outlined how `` You Ca n't Count On Me '' came to be on the Saturday Nights and Sunday Mornings album : `` When we were beginning to work out the songs for Sunday Mornings , my friend Dave Gibbs , formerly of Gigolo Aunts and now Low Stars , said ` Why do n't you record ` You Ca n't Count On Me ' ? '
I told him I had no idea what he was talking about .
He said it was one of his favorite songs of mine and sent me an mp3 of my original demo .
I listened to it and realized it was the perfect song for the middle of Sunday Mornings because Sunday Mornings needs to NOT be a record about redemption .
It 's a record about struggling to get your s -- t together after you 've wrecked your life ; not necessarily a record about getting your s -- t together .
But the songs are mostly very sad and very beautiful , especially in contrast to Saturday Nights , which can land you in the trap the song 's about .
Sunday Mornings needed ` You Ca n't Count On Me ' for the same reason I needed to write ` You Ca n't Count On Me . ' ''
Duritz was then asked how the music and the words for `` You Ca n't Count on Me '' finally came together .
He replied : `` I wrote the song on the piano and my original music was very much like a combination of the picking acoustic guitar part and the piano part Charlie -LRB- Gillingham keyboardist -RRB- plays on the record .
The two parts are , in fact , derived from different parts of my original piano recording .
I always knew the song was never supposed to be pretty .
The music had to be like the lyrics : sentimental , punch , sentimental , punch .
This proved to be harder than I thought .
We tried it a few times over the years at sound checks and it always sucked .
Eventually I gave up on it and completely forgot I had ever written it . ''
The album is divided into two sections .
The electric `` Saturday Nights '' and the more acoustic `` Sunday Mornings '' Duritz explained to Billboard magazine : `` This album is really starkly divided , not just musically but thematically .
The first half is pretty dark stuff and ` Sunday Mornings ' is not a side about redemption either .
` Sunday Mornings ' is about sorrow and grief . ''
