`` Generally , my way of doing things is frantically trying to think of something to write on my way to my writing appointment , '' confesses songwriter Tommy Lee James , `` so I do n't have to go in empty-handed .
That 's basically my mode of operation . ''
In the case of this song , he 'd been rooting around in his brain for a way to write a turnaround hook a-la Diane Warren -LRB- `` Because You Loved Me , '' `` Un-Break My Heart '' -RRB- , and came up with the idea literally 5 minutes before his hand hit the door to the writing studio .
`` In Nashville , we 're always looking for the way to turn a song around .
But I do n't do that much , I pretty much write really straight hooks . ''
Song writing in Nashville is a precarious course ; writers have to develop incredible tenacity to be successful - and keep it that way .
James laughs as he says , `` It 's best to work under pressure .
I guess I 'm different from a lot of Nashville writers where you write too many songs , and you 're on this thing sort of like a hamster wheel .
It 's just hard to find time to sit down and go , ` Okay , I 'm going to write a song about this ; here 's what I want to say . '
I mean for me it just does n't normally happen like that where there 's like a puzzle story behind the song.I do n't really have a story behind the songs in the classic sense like , ` Well , I was thinking about this when I wrote the song . '
A lot of times I 'll start out with a melody and maybe a title .
And then , okay , what do I want to say ?
Where 's this going ?
Where does this title lead me ?
Or this idea lead me ?
And just trying to take it from there , and trying to capture emotion rather than glory a lot of the times.Even though I 've had most of my success in Nashville , I tend to come out of a little more of a Pop sensibility .
Because that was always what I would listen to , and that was more my background .
Some people here in Nashville are just complete genius storytellers .
And I do n't consider myself part of that group .
Everybody sees themselves differently . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Tommy Lee James . -RRB-
James describes this song as a sort of inspirational take on the old Irish Blessing : `` May the road rise up to meet you.May the wind always be at your back.May the sun shine warm upon your face , and rains fall soft upon your fields.And until we meet again , May God hold you in the palm of His hand .
`` Only in this case , there a twist at the end of the chorus .
Which is what James and co-writer Ed Hill were striving for , folded up in a `` classic song that has some modulations in it . ''
