This is the first single from American Country artist Jason Aldean 's fourth studio album .
Although Aldean did n't write the tune , he told The Boot he feels as if it was custom made for him .
`` This song is all about workin ' for the weekend ... my fans work hard , so they can rip it up when Saturday rolls around , '' he said .
`` I hope they hear this one and want to turn it up .
We put a little extra juice on the electric guitars just for that reason . ''
Aldean explained : `` The album is named My Kinda Party because it 's totally representative of what I like and what my fans have come to expect on my records and at the ` party ' we throw at our shows . ''
Brantley Gilbert told The Boot the story behind the song : `` Me and all of my friends used to go hang out at a farm in Jackson County -LSB- Georgia -RSB- .
We 'd always go in and close the gate , and it was really just a field party .
I also had some friends in Banks County , and we 'd do the same thing there .
I wanted to write a song about those parties ... There are a lot of really , really good ones that you probably wo n't be able to write about !
-LSB- laughs -RSB- The song sparks a good time .
It kind of takes me back home to those days when we 'd get out in the middle of a field somewhere , light a bonfire and have a good ole time . ''
This was written and originally recorded by Brantley Gilbert , who like Aldean , is a Country singer from Georgia .
Gilbert 's version appears on his 2009 album Modern Day Prodigal Son .
Aldean explained to The Boot why he chose this as his first single from My Kinda Party : `` I think the song is that exact song ; it is the song that we always look for to launch an album .
For us , we want to come out and push the envelope with that first single and get everybody 's attention .
It 's like , OK , we 're coming out with a new album and here 's the first single .
I think it stands up to the others .
Brantley -LSB- Gilbert , the song 's writer -RSB- actually pitched the song for the last album and we just got it late in the game .
At the end of recording every album , we have a handful of songs that we love , and ` My Kinda Party ' was one of those .
We knew if it was around when we cut again we would record it .
It 's loud , it 's obnoxious and will get some attention , and that 's what we try to do on this record and with the other albums . ''
