When they sang the line `` I would n't have to eat Kraft dinner , '' fans would throw macaroni and cheese at the band .
It was cute at first , but got to be annoying .
It does n't happen as often now that they play larger venues .
Kraft macaroni and cheese is known as `` Kraft dinner '' in Canada , where the band is from .
The group used to close many of their concerts with this , followed by a big rap number taking lyrics from a handful of popular songs and beatboxing along with some interesting late - '80s hip hop choreography .
-LRB- thanks , Kelly - Portland , OR , for above 2 -RRB- This was re-released in 1996 .
It did n't chart then either .
The line `` I 'd buy you John Merrick 's remains '' refers to The Elephant Man , who had a disease that made him horribly deformed .
In live versions , the band sometimes changes the line to `` I 'd buy you John Davidson 's remains . ''
Davidson was the goalie for the New York Rangers hockey team and is a color analyst for ABC Sports .
The Barenaked Ladies are huge hockey fans .
-LRB- thanks , Seth - Victor , NY -RRB- In 2001 , the New York Lottery used this in commercials featuring people singing this while they fantasized about hitting the jackpot .
Barenaked Ladies now ask that instead of pelting the band with boxes of Kraft Dinner , all the boxes be collected at the door of the concert and it all gets donated to a local food bank in each city .
This was the first single Barenaked Ladies released on a major label .
They were signed to Reprise Records after they built a following and their independent releases sold well .
Barenaked Ladies included this on Buck Naked , the first tape they made and one that only Steven Page and Ed Robertson played on .
Released in 1989 , they made about 500 copies of it .
The song also made it onto their second tape , Barenaked Lunch , in 1990 .
About 2000 copies were made , but the tape was recorded wrong , resulting in the song playing too fast .
It was also included on the last tape they made before they were signed by a major label .
Known as The Yellow Tape , it sold over 500,000 copies and became the first Canadian independent release to go gold .
The lyrics listed on the liner notes to Gordon are actually the lyrics from the version on their independent release .
Some of the lines are different .
