The title track of 2011 American Idol runner-up Lauren Alaina 's debut album was penned by Nashville songwriters Hillary Lindsey , Gordie Sampson and Steven McEwan , but the teenage singer considers it one of the most autobiographical songs on the CD . ''
` Wildflower ' is the perfect name for my first album , '' she explained .
`` I would consider myself a wildflower because wildflowers are sweet , but then they have a little bit of spunk to them .
I like to have a lot of fun and I 'm really sassy , so I feel like a wildflower would be a good description of who I am as a person . ''
Wildflower was produced by Bryon Gallimore , who has also worked with such artists as Sugarland , Tim McGraw and Faith Hill .
Lauren explained to Taste of Country why she considers this cut to reflect not only her , but also other teenage girls of her age : `` I 'm definitely a wildflower and I feel that there are tons of girls out there that are wildflowers .
It talks about this girl who views herself as not all that .
She thinks that she is not good enough .
She has a crush on this boy , but she thinks she is invisible to him , so she never says anything .
As a teenage girl , you are your own worst critic .
You think other people are putting you down , but really it 's you putting yourself down .
You are the one who thinks you do n't look good in a certain outfit or that your hair is n't fixed perfectly .
You might think a guy does n't like you because of this or that .
But , really deep down we are too shy to approach the people and ask them .
That is how we are built .
I am one of the most open people in the world , but I was n't like that until a few years ago .
I know how it feels to feel like you are n't good enough .
In elementary school , I was a lot different .
When I first heard the song , it made me want to cry because I remember being the freckled-face little girl with a big gap in her teeth .
The boys all liked this other girl in elementary school , and no one liked me .
I was the one who wanted to throw the football with them and play outside .
The older I got , I realized that guys like that , but they just do n't want to admit it .
The song represents how girls always put themselves down when they are really wildflowers and they need to bloom . ''
