This song was written by the British production team of Stock , Aitken and Waterman .
It was inspired by a woman Pete Waterman had been seeing for three years .
Rick Astley was staying with Waterman at the time , and after a 3-hour phone call with the woman , Astley said , `` You 're never gon na give her up . ''
Aitken and Waterman then changed the story a bit and made him the one who was vulnerable .
This was the biggest single in the UK in 1987 .
It topped the charts throughout Europe .
In a 2007 Family Guy episode based on the movie Back To The Future , Brian plays this at the school dance instead of `` Johnny B. Goode , '' with Astley 's cousin Marvin calling to tell Rick about the `` Mediocre , generic '' sound he 's been looking for .
Nick Lowe takes a far more pragmatic view of this song 's sentiment on his 1990 track `` All Men Are Liars . ''
He sings : Do you remember Rick Astley ?
He had a big fat hit that was ghastly .
He said I 'm never gon na give you up or let you down .
Well I 'm here to tell ya that Dick 's a clown Though he was just a boy when he made that vow .
I 'd bet it all that he knows by now .
Rick Astley worked as a tape operator in Stock , Aitken and Waterman 's studio for two years , singing on recordings for other singers , learning the trade and famously making the tea , before the production trio wrote and produced this song for him , which became Astley 's first hit .
This was featured in the 1995 film Dead Presidents .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England , for all above -RRB- A craze which originated in 2007 involved various websites , including an online anti-Scientology group and a Radiohead site , posting links that resembled normal click-throughs offering more of the news story , but instead took users to the 1987 video of Rick Astley singing this song on YouTube .
Astley was aware of this internet prank , which became known as Rickrolling and resulted in millions of hits for this song on YouTube .
He spoke to the LA Times about the phenomenon : `` It 's a bit strange to have videos of when you were a young guy out on the internet .
It makes me laugh - I 'm sure it annoys a lot of other people .
It 's a bit spooky .
It 's just one of those odd things when something gets picked up and people run with it .
That 's what 's brilliant about the internet . ''
