Brian Wilson Reimagines Gershwin is the ninth studio album by Brian Wilson .
The record consists of covers of ten George and Ira Gershwin songs , bookended by passages from Rhapsody in Blue along with two new songs completed from unfinished Gershwin fragments by Wilson with lyrics by the guitarist in his band , Scott Bennett .
Wilson found enough material for two new songs out of the fragments , this one and `` The Like In I Love You . ''
The former Beach Boy told Mojo : `` I kept saying no , no , no , and then yeah , that one , and finally we got two .
I liked the way the harmonics were -LRB- in those two -RRB- and I liked the melodic ness of them .
They 're two very special songs . ''
After his initial enthusiasm , Wilson became daunted by the whole idea , `` I was scared to death that I was n't going to be able to do it . ''
Mertens told Mojo how the song developed a rocking groove .
`` We have a completely different version of Nothing But Love - different lyrics , different key and 3/4 time .
Finally , after going through a lot of different lyric changes , sentimental to humorous , and trying different background vocal parts , Brian went , ' I do n't dig waltzes , it 's not my bag . '
Evidently he came to the conclusion once we recorded the song , because at first he liked it .
So I wrote a new chart in 4 and Brian described the kind of rocking groove that he wanted to try and the band threw down a new version . ''
The Gershwin estate granted Wilson access to 104 unfinished Gershwin songs and fragments for the project to use for new material .
Paul Mertens , the woodwind player in Wilson 's band who acted as the project 's musical director told Mojo magazine : `` I think the music had been in written form and then somebody took all of these notes on the paper and just played it on the piano , a very basic realisation , with very little interpretation or style or verve , and recorded it onto a set of CDs .
Some of them really were complete songs and some were very short , a single idea without a bridge or a lot of form .
Melinda -LRB- Brian 's wife -RRB- sat down with Brian and played CDs . ''
Scott Bennett told Mojo that Wilson gave him no direction for this song 's lyrics .
He added : `` Since the song started as a waltz , I originally had visions of a guy alone in the romantic city of Paris .
Then , we decided that Paris was overused , especially since Gershwin had done American in Paris , so , I turned to my wife Jenny and said , ` This stuff has to be timeless , what 's timeless ? '
And she said , ` Nothing but love . ' ''
