In a 1992 interview with Oor magazine , the songs ' co-writer Alex Chilton -LRB- who is credited along with Chris Bell -RRB- revealed that , whilst he felt that Big Star 's `` music is still a triumph -- some of the time , '' he said `` I did n't understand how to make the right sound with my voice , so things like ` Ballad Of El Goodo ' and ` Thirteen ' could have been better . ''
In our 2013 interview , Big Star drummer Jody Stephens expressed how he felt the song revealed Chilton and Bell to be a cut above the average rock n ' roller : `` All of a sudden I 'm playing with these guys that can write songs that are as engaging to me as the people I 'd grown up listening to , so I felt incredibly lucky . ''
He also singled out the song as one of his favorites to play .
Though the song can be interpreted as a broad , abstract paean to anti-conformity and independence , the lyrics could more specifically allude to the Vietnam War .
The first verse plays with the idiom `` stick to your guns , '' which could easily be literalized with the second verse : `` There 's people around who tell you that they know The places where they send you , and it 's easy to go They 'll zip you up and dress you down , stand you in a row But you know you do n't have to You can just say no '' The Vietnam War was seemingly important to Chilton .
In an 2010 obituary for Nashvillescene.com following Chilton 's death , John `` Bucky '' Wilkin , lead singer and songwriter for '60s surf rock group Ronny & the Daytonas , said : `` Vietnam was the war we both related to , more on the level of the Buddhist priests who set themselves on fire in protest than as the American combat soldiers -- both of us somehow being able to avoid the draft . ''
Counting Crows covered the song for their 2012 album of covers Underwater Sunshine -LRB- or What we did on our Summer Vacation -RRB- .
In a 2012 interview with Paste magazine , frontman Adam Duritz said `` One of the last changes we made was putting ` The Ballad of El Goodo ' at the end of the record .
I find it hard to follow that song on a record .
I really love that song ... it 's speaking about survival . ''
