In the title song of her breakthrough album , Janet proclaims her independence for the first time in her life .
It does n't take much reading between the lines to figure out the whole album represents a break from her famous family , including superstar brother Michael and father , Joe , who was primarily interested in being a manager rather than a dad . ''
` Control ' came from the heart , '' she told the Los Angeles Times .
`` It was all about stepping out , taking control of your life ... a certain point in your life when you ask yourself who you are and what you want to do . ''
The album hooked her up with producers/songwriters Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis , who helped her create a sexy and funky image .
Jam and Lewis went on to write and produce most of her hits , including this one -LRB- Janet also has a writing credit on the track -RRB- .
The unique break in this song came about by accident during the production of `` Nasty , '' another hit from the album .
Jimmy Jam explained : `` When you program drum machines , you program a lot of different patterns in .
But the way we do it , we never put the programs in a sequence .
We play and change the sequences by hand .
So at one point in ` Nasty , ' I changed to the wrong sequence and it made this weird drum break .
A lot of times when that happens , we leave it and figure out what to do with it musically later .
That 's what happened on ` Control . '
There are two or three breaks where it stops and there 's a little ` do-do-do-do-do , ' and that was the creation of hitting the wrong drum program at the wrong time .
But it worked . ''
Glee 's Dianna Agron , Darren Criss and Kevin McHale covered this song on the season 3 episode `` Hold On to Sixteen . ''
Although Janet wanted a fresh start , she did n't want to forget about her past or her old friends .
Ja ` net Dubois , her former co-star from the '70s sitcom Good Times , played her mother in the music video for this song .
Producing the music video for this song was one of the worst experiences in Sharon Oreck 's career .
Behind the scenes , Janet 's soon-to-be-fired manager Joe Jackson was trying to sabotage the project by making wild demands -LRB- which were last-ditch efforts to control his daughter -RRB- .
He angrily insisted Janet be insured for $ 1 million before she was allowed to be lowered onstage via trapeze .
Meanwhile , the live footage was being recorded at the Grand Olympics Auditorium in Los Angeles in front of an audience who expected a free Janet Jackson concert , not `` 50 takes of Janet lip-synching , '' Oreck remembered .
The crowd was disgruntled over that , but nearly rioted when white members of the audience , who had been scattered throughout , were slowly being moved to the front .
An A&M label representative was able to calm everyone down when he explained the migration was n't an act of segregation but a trick to make it look like the audience was more diverse .
The video later won a Soul Train Music Award for Best R&B / Soul or Rap Video , but Oreck called it her `` worst nightmare . ''
