This angsty piano ballad finds Josh Homme lamenting , `` Does anyone ever get this right ?
I feel no love . ''
Homme admitted to NME that he hated the song at first .
`` I was like , ` Who wants to hear this ? '
And Brody -LRB- Dalle , Homme 's wife -RRB- was like , ` Who f -- ing cares ? '
And I was like , ` Oh yeah , that 's right . '
You need to make music for yourself .
If you do it right you can learn something about yourself and maybe even make yourself better . ''
The song finds Homme singing about feeling unloved and wanting God to come and take him away as he lies in bed in hospital .
He told Spin magazine why he felt the need to express himself in such a direct way without his usual sarcasm .
`` I feel like -LSB- Songs for the Deaf 's -RSB- ` Go With The Flow ' or -LSB- Lullabies to Paralyze 's -RSB- ` Long Slow Goodbye ' are very direct songs , '' he said .
`` But with those records , I could see the end goal before we started .
This one started with no end in sight ... it 's just different this time for the band . '' ''
-LSB- Matador founder -RSB- Chris Lombardi told me that this is Act Two of Queens of the Stone Age , '' he continued , `` and I agree with that .
Act Two just happened to start with me waking up in a hospital .
I 'm not complaining , but I do kind of wish it had started in a different way .
I 've always thought of music as separate from reality , but there 's no escaping the reality of where this album started .
I had no choice but to deal with it . ''
While on an operating table receiving knee surgery , Josh Homme nearly died from undisclosed complications .
Incapacitated and bedridden for several months following the operation , he started thinking about the things that matter : in life .
This was the first song the Queens frontman wrote once he was finally able to pick up a guitar again .
`` The wife and I have a little shack out the back of our house , so I put a little studio in there , '' Homme told the Irish Independent .
`` She encouraged me to go in there as much as possible and told me not to worry about what I wrote .
So , I went in and the first song I wrote was ` The Vampyre of Time and Memory . ' ''
