Matthew `` Matt '' Cardle is an English singer from Little Maplestead , Essex , who was born in 1983 .
Matt was diagnosed with Wilms ' tumour , which is a form of cancer , when he was a toddler and he only recovered once one of his kidneys was removed .
After leaving school Cardle was employed in a wide range of jobs while pursuing a music career .
He ended up fronting a rock band called Seven Summers who released a self-titled debut album in January 2010 and at the same time supporting himself by working as a painter/decorator .
After applying to the seventh series of X Factor , Cardle made it through the bootcamp stages , and from week 2 of the live shows , he received the most votes every week .
He eventually won the competition on December 12 , 2010 .
Biffy frontman Simon Neil has sought to distance himself from the X Factor 's use of `` Many of Horror . ''
He told Kerrang !
: `` I think when you look at the classic songs they 've used in the past , like Leonard Cohen 's Hallelujah for example , it has n't really affected my take on the song .
I still think the Jeff Buckley version is the best.So I 'm hoping it does n't impact on the song too much .
But it 's very surreal and subversive to think about our music being used on primetime TV .
I just hope no one is too pissed off about it . ''
A cover of `` Many of Horror -LRB- When We Collide -RRB- '' by Biffy Clyro , renamed to `` When We Collide '' was released as Cardle 's debut single .
The song was released immediately after winning the contest .
Biffy Clyro 's original version appeared on their 2009 album Only Revolutions and reached # 20 when it was released as a single in the UK earlier in 2010 .
Said Cardle : `` I know there are some Biffy fans who are like , ` What have you done to that song ?
But it 's a great song -- I hope I 've done it justice . ''
This topped the UK charts in the Christmas week selling 439,000 copies in the six days that it was on sale .
Cardle was the fifth X Factor champ in seven seasons of the show to achieve a Xmas chart-topper .
