This haunting , vulnerable ballad was penned by Austin , Texas , Country singer Keith Gattis and was originally recorded by him on his Big City Blues album .
Chesney told Billboard magazine that he was aware he was taking a risk in doing his own interpretation , `` because it 's been cut twice before and both were really good . ''
He added that Keith Gattis ' version , `` is incredible , and I heard Charlie -LSB- Robison 's -RSB- version of it 10 years ago when it came out , and it haunted me .
Now all this time has passed , and I still think it 's a little taboo to touch it - but I sure felt it .
The time was right for me vocally and emotionally to sink my teeth into that song . ''
Regarding the song 's meaning , Chesney explained the narrator is desperately longing for companionship .
`` I 've loved that song for a while .
There is a certain longing in this song that in a lot of ways I really relate to , '' he said .
`` It 's about wanting something that 's obviously not there ... this searching that we all have for love and lust , and someone that 's not in your life anymore .
It talks about all of the measures that we go through to feel loved and to get that certain thing back that 's just driving you crazy .
` El Cerrito Place ' has that certain insanity about it that I think is very relatable .
There 's searching and longing that all of us have inside .
I 've felt every bit of emotion that the character in that song deals with . ''
Speaking with Houston , Texas radio station KILT , Charlie Robison said he was n't surprised that Chesney recorded his own version .
`` When that song first came out as a single , he called me and was like , ` Man , I ca n't stop watching that video and ca n't stop playing that song , ' '' recalled the Texan singer-songwriter .
`` I went to sing it with him at some of his shows , too .
So I had the feeling he was going to end up doing that song someday and sure enough , he did.It 's hard to take a song that there 's a definitive recording of and make it your own , and I think he did a good job with it , '' he continued .
`` You 've got ta stay true to it , but then again you 've got ta put your own twist on it at the same time .
The song title refers to a street in the Hollywood Hills , California .
Chesney recruited Nocturnals frontwoman Grace Potter to sing backup .
`` She has a way of singing the harmony that makes you feel that person 's pain even more , '' he said of the singer , who first collaborated with him on `` You and Tequila . ''
