This was originally recorded by Rodney Crowell , who wrote the song with Will Jennings .
Crowell and Jennings are both songwriters from East Texas , and wrote several other songs together , including `` Many Align The Lonesome Highway '' and `` What Kind Of Love . ''
Crowell wrote a series of Country hits , many for Rosanne Cash , who he was married to from 1979-1991 .
Jennings had tremendous success writing songs for movies and collaborating with Steve Winwood , B.B. King , Jimmy Buffett and many others .
Jennings told us how this came together : `` This song began in the summer of 1994 in the garage of my house in Westlake Village , California , when my engineer and I were testing a portable recording studio which I was to carry with me the next day to Carmel , California , where my wife and I were to stay for three months .
My engineer had me playing the keyboard , recording different sounds to different tracks , and out of nowhere I started playing the chorus hook and the title , which came just after the music .
After everything had been tested , I had the chorus hook and other parts of the verse melody recorded and saved .
We went on to Carmel and Rodney called me weeks later asking for something to work on for his album .
I pulled the bits and pieces together , with the chorus title and tune , and sent it all to him .
We worked on the phone between Carmel and Nashville and developed the rest of the song .
Rodney made a great recording which was overlooked by the public and a year or two later George Massenburg , who loved the song , played it for Linda Ronstadt and Aaron Neville and made a great record .
Years went by and Tim McGraw picked up the song and made a fine record that closely followed Rodney 's production and Tim 's version was a country and , almost , pop hit .
Rodney and I poured out our feelings about ending relationships , realizing the damage done , and wishing departed lovers a better life than they had with us .
It 's about a breakup , and it was a particular person I had in mind , which I can not reveal . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Will Jennings . -RRB-
A version by Scotty McCreery was used as the exit song for the 11th series of American Idol .
Scotty told USA Today just after recording it : '' ` Please Remember Me ' is a great song with lyrics that are very appropriate for this setting .
When you are eliminated , whether it 's early on or down the road in the competition , you always want people to remember you .
You want to get to work and put out some good music , and through that music , people will remember you .
This is one way this lyric can be interpreted for this goodbye song.I sent -LRB- McGraw -RRB- a little message and told him we just cut it and it was going to be on Idol every week , '' he added .
`` He said , ` Oh , man .
That 's really cool .
I 'm sure you nailed it . '
He gave me some good feedback . ''
Aaron Neville and Linda Ronstadt were the first to record this as a duet , their version appearing on Neville 's 1997 album To Make Me Who I Am .
McGraw 's version is a duet with Patty Loveless .
The song was covered by Danielle Bradbery on NBC 's The Voice in 2013 .
Her version landed at # 91 on the Hot 100 after she sang it in the semi-finals .
