This is the lead single from Confessions , the sixth album by the American rock band Buckcherry .
It finds Josh Todd singing about smoking and sleeping around to a gluttonous level over Keith Nelson 's metal riffing .
Josh Todd told Noisecreep about the song 's provocative video , which was directed by Billy Jayne and filmed in a North Hollywood church. : `` The concept of the video is excess , consuming everything excessively , and moderation is not even in the equation , '' he said .
`` I 'm very familiar with that , and a lot of guys in the band are familiar with that .
Because the record is called Confessions , we filmed the video in a church , we got Jesus down here - which is killer - and we got a lot of our fans in it , which is amazing - they came out on their own time and have really put in a lot of sweat equity , so thank you to them . ''
The theme of the record is the seven deadly sins .
It is part of a larger vision that includes a short film written by Todd , who based the lyrics on his childhood and transformation into adulthood .
Keith Nelson told PCM Music the record is not a full-on concept album .
`` It started off as a concept record , '' he explained , `` and then evolved away from that .
It evolved into Josh Todd writing a screenplay loosely based on some events of his life .
The story of the record goes with the film and the film goes with the record .
It tells a story . ''
Todd refers to the song 's lyrical protagonist as holding back a beast .
He explained to Heavy Metal Artwork : `` As a youth it was always confusing to me : if something feels good , why not overdo it ?
I just did n't understand anything but that .
I work very hard on a daily basis to manage my obsessive compulsive behavior and that 's what ` Gluttony ' is about . ''
`` We have all these things that take us out of who we really are at the core , like drugs and alcohol , and sex , and sugar , and caffeine , and it changes us and sometimes it 's a lot of fun , and you just want to keep doing it , '' Todd added .
`` The problem is of course stopping . ''
