This # 1 Country hit is about adultery .
The singer is seeing a married woman , who is trying to end the affair .
The singer wonders to himself why does it have to be so cut and dry .
Speaking to us in a 2013 interview , Restless Heart pianist and founding member Dave Innis recalled : `` I remember thinking it was a little bit controversial at the time in terms of its content , but such a great feel . ''
-LRB- thanks , Lily - Argyle , TX -RRB- One of the original crossover bands , Restless Heart was formed in 1984 , boasting `` the cream of the crop of the sessions players in Nashville , '' says Randy Sharp .
`` Their stuff got played in both Country and Pop formats a lot , and they were put together specifically to do something different , and a little bit more pop-ish . ''
Through 8 CDs and several personnel changes , they are among the top-selling bands in Country music .
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Randy Sharp . -RRB-
This was written by the Nashville songwriters Donny Lowery and Randy Sharp .
In 1986 , Nashville had not yet experienced anything quite like Randy Sharp .
A rebel in the ways of lyrical etiquette , to this day songwriter Sharp chooses to toe the line in terms of content and style ; and he has succeeded in producing hit upon hit upon hit.When he was paired with Don Lowery to co-write this song , Restless Heart did n't even exist .
At the time , Tim DuBois , co-founder of Arista Records , was busy forming an idea .
According to Randy , `` The members of Restless Heart were all friends , and they were all working together all the time anyway .
But Ted got the idea that these young sessions players that he was seeing at all the recording dates really should think about being their own band , because these guys were already a working ensemble .
`` This song , says Randy , `` Was so against the rules in almost every respect .
And there was no Pop side of Country yet when we wrote that .
It was a very straight Country market .
So Don and I were just writing to entertain each other .
The premise of this song was really contrary to that very conservative Country mentality .
We 're talking about basically , Why am I limited to one ?
Why do I have to just be in love with one person at a time ?
I had no expectation of that story line making it on Country radio .
But the demo had all of those harmonies on it .
So we were just being really indulgent and creating something that we were entertained by .
And of course , being kind of young men at that time , both had asked ourselves that question more than once .
And it was a legitimate question and a legitimate song .
Just the idea of getting it cut in the Country ... we just did n't see it happening . ''
`` But we turned it in , and it just happened Tim DuBois was looking to do a Pop/Country band with the best players in town , and they were looking for something that was really elaborate vocally , and was a little outside of the expected story lines .
And we sent him that song , and the band got really excited and cut it , and it was actually a bit Pop , too .
Both Country and Pop , it 's one of the 100 Most Played Songs . ''
Dave Innis told us that the band `` did some minor editing '' on the lyrics after hearing Sharp and Lowery 's demo .
He recalled : `` One of the lines originally was , ` If you think this is not where you belong , there 's no need to carry on . '
And we changed it to , ` But we both know this is not where you belong , there 's no need to carry on , ' to make it more mutually responsible . ''
