Jake Edwin Kennedy is an English singer songwriter who records under the name of Jake Bugg .
He grew up in the Clifton area of Nottingham and started playing guitar at the age of 12 .
Five years later , Bugg was signed by Mercury Records after being chosen by the BBC to appear on their `` Introducing '' stage at the 2011 Glastonbury Festival .
This song finds him singing of scheming and growing up on the streets of Clifton .
This song was Bugg 's first to enter the UK top 75 singles chart .
The `` two-fingered salute '' in which the index and middle fingers are put up at or to another person with the palm outward , is an obscene gesture of scorn or defiance .
Its use as an insulting sign is largely restricted to the UK , Ireland , Australia , and New Zealand .
Legend has it that the gesture originated at the 1415 Battle of Agincourt during the Hundred Years ' War .
The French , certain of victory , had threatened to cut off the bow-fingers of all the English archers .
When the English were victorious , the archers held up their fingers in ` defiance . '
However , most experts consider the insulting sign to be of unknown origin .
The Jamie Thraves directed music video takes place in Clifton , Nottingham , and brings the song 's story of domestic abuse to life .
English actor Craig Parkinson -LRB- Control , Four Lions -RRB- plays the abusive boyfriend .
Bugg 's eponymous debut album has a vintage sound to it .
He told The Sun that it was his original demo version that was used .
`` It was recorded as a demo , '' Bugg explained . ''
I wanted to go back in to the studio and perfect it .
But the label were like , ` This demo sounds great so let 's put it out like this . '
I trusted the label and I was really happy with it in the end . ''
Jake Bugg 's eponymous album debuted at # 1 on the UK chart .
At just short of 19 years old , he became the youngest British male ever to have an album enter the charts at top position .
The youngest artist ever to have a # 1 British album was Neil Reid who was 12 years old when his self-titled LP climbed to the summit in 1972 .
Jake Bugg 's parents separated when he was a child .
He admitted to the Daily Telegraph that it was n't quite the broken home that features in this song 's video , `` but it 's not far off . ''
Bugg recalled writing the song in a video track by track .
`` It 's a very personal song for me , I wanted to express how I felt , '' he said .
`` Its a song about growing up and escaping and just life in general .
I wanted to put it in the best words possible but also detailed and keeping everyone happy . ''
