In O.A.R. frontman and founder Marc Roberge 's told us : `` What this song 's really about is these people in my life -- or in anyone 's life -- you have all these people coming up to you , ` Man , if my boss was n't such a jerk I 'd be making ... whatever . '
Or , ` If my wife did n't hold me back , I would be a football player . '
Whatever it is , everyone 's always got these complaints they 're blaming on everyone around them .
And they 're constantly saying , ` Man , I was the sh * t without you .
I could do whatever I wanted . '
You know , all these things .
And the main line at the end where it says , ` I 've got ta turn this thing around , ' it 's basically just saying it 's not about all these other people .
It 's not about the people holding you back .
It 's really about you .
So the ` I 'm good without you ' part is this guy is trying to convince himself , ` All right , I 'm in the car , I 'm outta here .
I 'm gon na go be a rebel , I 'm gon na be a kid , I 'm gon na have tons of girls , ' all this stuff .
And he always comes back because he realizes , ` That 's not her problem , it 's my problem .
I need to fix what I 've got here . ' ''
This is O.A.R. 's biggest hit with mainstream radio listeners .
Marc describes how the song came to life : '' ` Shattered ' always had something about it that we really liked .
I wrote it with Gregg Wattenberg , who 's a friend of mine .
We just like to write songs .
I have a lot of buddies like that , who I just like to sit around and write songs with .
He came up with this piano-driven song that sounded like the finished product is now , but not very close .
So I took it with me , we went on the road , we started writing songs for the record .
And then I kept listening to this thing that we 'd written , and I came up with this melody , this one line , ` How many times can I break 'til I shatter . '
And that was all I had for a couple of weeks .
But I just kept coming back to it .
And by the time we were ready to press ` record ' on the album , this was the absolute last demo that was approved by the band .
Not because it was n't good .
It just was n't finished yet .
So they said , ` Let 's give it a shot , ' and we recorded it .
And I was always positive -- I always knew this was gon na be a good song .
Because it flowed , and it felt really good .
So when the lyrics came in , we said , ` Oh , this is definitely the one ... ' The same day , we knew that this was gon na be the first single . ''
O.A.R. achieved initial success on an independent label .
When they signed to a major label a few CDs into their career , many cried `` sell out ! ''
But the band 's integrity has remained intact throughout the furor , and the deal they made with their label is admirable.Says Roberge : `` When we came up we were doing really well independently with our own label .
And then when we kept selling records , I mean , we were getting to the point where we had great distribution , everything was really cool , and our touring was growing .
We started getting offers from major labels .
And every meeting we took was very similar .
But there was this one guy at Lava Records who basically said , ' I do n't want to change what you guys do .
You obviously know what you 're doing .
Let 's just make a deal that is cool and we 'll sell more of your records . '
It was very honest and was n't one of those , ` We 're gon na make you stars ' things .
It was like an imprint with a big label .
And then Lava , unfortunately , caved or something before we put out our last record .
They came in and fired everybody , and we had to put our album out early .
And it was a big thing .
But all along the way , honestly , the management we 've had , these people really treat us right .
So we made the decision based on a leap of faith , ' I hope these people do n't try to change us . '
And they have n't .
They 're just cool .
I think they know what we do works for us .
And we 're not really easily styled , so I do n't think they 're gon na be able to do that .
-LRB- laughing -RRB- We dress all right already . ''
-LRB- Check out our full interview with Marc Roberge . -RRB-
Songwriters tend to be particularly good listeners .
Got a problem ?
Talk to a writer .
Just do n't be surprised when you hear your problems in lyrics.Sometimes even the younger set can chime in , as happened in the case of Roberge 's 5-year-old niece .
Marc explains : `` She really likes to write songs in her head , like funny songs or whatever .
And she sat there and said this crazy lyric .
And I was really inspired .
I was like , ` That is so cool . '
Straight from a kid 's mind , unfiltered .
I gave her this little book , I said , ` Any time you have an idea just write it down . '
-LRB- laughing -RRB- ` Call Uncle Marc and we 'll talk about it . '
You 've got ta open up your eyes to what 's around you .
When you 're a writer you 've got ta be inspired all the time .
And sometimes you 'll hear this one word , like in the song ` Shattered , ' the word ` pattern , ' ` Let me make my own pattern . '
And I remember we were in the studio and I was writing that down , and I was just going through words , ` I 've got ta make my own way , ' and I said , ` pattern , ' and everyone 's like , ` That 's an interesting word . '
It 's a normal word , but I do n't hear that often in songs .
And we were like , ` Oh , put it in there , man , that 'll throw 'em . ' ''
-LRB- laughing -RRB- In the 1990s , the TV show Beverly Hills 90210 was the show to watch .
When Ian Ziering 's character , Steve Sanders , showed up at an O.A.R. concert during a taping of 90210 , it was one of the more surreal moments in Marc 's life .
`` I was so psyched , '' he laughs .
`` I 'm looking out and I see Steve Sanders , and I 'm like , What the f *** is going on ?
`` So the fact that this song has been played in the trailers for the re-vamped 2000s version of 90210 is really special to him .
`` I always said , ` Man that would be cool to get our songs on this show . '
And ten years later we 're on there .
Better late than never .
So it 's kinda cool .
`` Most of the time the band does n't even know right away when their song has been picked up for a TV show or commercial , unless they happen to see it .
`` It 's funny , because somewhere along the line you find out , '' explains Marc .
`` It may be anywhere from like a week to a month before we 'll get an e-mail from our management saying , ` Hey , we said it 's cool for your song to be on such-and-such . '
Because we control our publishing , we basically act as the publishing company with clearances and all these things , as opposed to signing up on a publishing deal and them just putting your sh * t everywhere and you really do n't even have any control .
So I always know about it .
And I rarely catch it on TV the first time , because I 'm a little spacey . ''
