In an interview with the UK-based Soul singer Doris Troy on Spencer Leigh 's On the Beat radio show , Troy said that Stephen Stills was at a party in London and feeling lonesome as his girlfriend was back in the States .
Troy got talking to him and said `` Love the one you 're with , Sugar ! ''
Stills loved the expression and asked if she minded if he used it in a song .
She readily agreed .
-LRB- thanks , Bill - Liverpool , England -RRB- An Isley Brothers cover in 1971 -LRB- # 18 US -RRB- transformed this from a song with a free love ethos into one about a Higher Love .
Other notable versions include ones by Aretha Franklin on her 1971 Live At Filmore West album , British pop act Bucks Fizz , who peaked at # 47 in 1986 with their cover and UK Pop Idol winner Will Young on his 2003 album Friday 's Child .
In the 2012 movie Prometheus , which is set in the year 2093 , the spaceship 's captain , portrayed by Idris Elba , sings a bit of this song after revealing that the accordion he had been playing once belonged to Stephen Stills .
John Sebastian , Rita Coolidge , Priscilla Jones , David Crosby and Graham Nash provided the backing vocals on this track .
Photographer Henry Diltz , who photographed the album sleeve for Stephen Stills , wrote in his California Dreaming : Memories And Visions Of LA 1966-1975 about the story behind the LP cover : `` After Deja Vu , CSN went on a bit of a hiatus and Stephen invited me to join him in Colorado .
Gold Hill was way up in the Colorado mountains .
While we were there Stephen received word that Jimi Hendrix had passed away so everybody was very sad .
We sat up the whole night talking , telling stories and remembering him .
When dawn came up the next morning it had snowed overnight and everything was blanketed in white .
I grabbed my camera and Stephen grabbed his guitar , we ran outside and I started taking pictures of him sitting on a chair in the middle of the snow .
Some time later this -LRB- session -RRB- was chosen for his first album cover . ''
See the cover in Song Images .
