Brotherhood of Man is a British pop quartet which was formed in 1969 by the songwriter Tony Hiller , who told us : `` I had two jobs at that time - I was General Professional Manager of an American Music Publishing Company , Mills Music , and I was also a record producer for Decca Records UK .
I produced the record at Decca Studios , London .
At the recording I had great musicians , wonderful arrangement , terrific engineer , and the exceptional voices of the Brotherhood of Man which I had founded and put together .
They were Roger Greenaway -LRB- who went on to become a hit songwriter and was inducted into the US Songwriters ' Hall of Fame -RRB- , Tony Burrows -LRB- who was unique in that he had 3 major hits in 3 different bands in the same period - ` Love Grows -LRB- Where My Rosemary Goes -RRB- , ' ` My Baby Loves Love ' and ` United We Stand ' - making musical history.Johnny Goodison was the first member of my band and co-writer of many of the titles I wrote for them .
After this , he went on to write and produce many hits , including the Bay City Rollers .
Plus two sisters , who were the top session singers of the day and were on numerous hits for major artists at that time , Sue Glover and Sunny Leslie .
I also recorded tracks with them and Sunny went on to have a hit with ` Doctors Orders . '
I was so honoured and LUCKY to have worked with such a wonderful array of talent .
When I played back the recording I had made , there was thunderous applause in the studio .
We all knew that there was magic in the air . ''
The group performed throughout the 1970s with other songs making the charts , but their lineup changed frequently , with Burrows leaving the group in 1972 , and they were increasingly compared with the Swedish quartet ABBA .
This emotional song became a huge worldwide hit .
Although it 's about a couple who vow to stand together in the face of whatever challenges they encounter , it wound up taking on a political tone .
The opponents of the Vietnam War sometimes appropriated it .
After the attacks on the Twin Towers on September 11 , 2001 , it made a big comeback as a national unity theme in the United States .
The song was also adopted as an anthem by the Gay Liberation Front .
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Santa Barbara , CA -RRB- When the group performed this on the BBC music show , Top of the Pops , a pre-famous Elton John appeared as a backing singer .
Tony Hiller wrote this song in 1969 with his friend Johnny Goodison , who was part of the original Brotherhood of Man lineup .
Tony told us : `` The inspiration for the song was definitely in the title , ` United We Stand . '
It was during the time of Flower Power , the Vietnam War , the founding of lots of movements , including gay liberation and civil rights .
It was in fact immediately taken up and used as the rallying call for the US Democratic Party Presidential Campaign .
Over the years , ` United We Stand ' has been recorded by upwards of 150 artists worldwide .
So you can see , that something that started out as a pure love song went on to become an important anthem of our times , and helped so many people to heal their pain and suffering after the 9/11 attacks .
This is the Brotherhood of Man song of which I am most proud . ''
Tony Hiller also produced the group .
Regarding his production techniques , he said , `` What I did on the productions which I had never tried before - when it came to the choruses , I double tracked the voices and between each chorus did a little reverb .
It was an experiment and it worked well for me . ''
