Wonder recorded this to lobby for Dr. Martin Luther King 's January 15 birthday to be an American national holiday .
King was a black American Civil Rights leader whose unique combination of the message of Jesus -LRB- love your enemies -RRB- and the method of Gandhi -LRB- non violent protest -RRB- gave both a strategy and a philosophy to the black civil rights movement .
During the years he led the movement he won victory after victory without resorting to violence .
King was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964 at the age of 35 , making him the youngest Nobel Prize recipient .
He was shot and killed on April 4 , 1968 by the white James Earl Ray when leaving his room at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis Tennessee to attend a soul-food dinner at the home of the Reverend Samuel -LRB- Billy -RRB- Kyles on the Lorraine Motel balcony .
The third Monday in January is now Martin Luther King day in USA - a public holiday .
Other hit songs about Martin Luther King include `` Pride -LRB- In The Name Of Love -RRB- '' by U2 , `` Abraham , Martin and John '' by Marvin Gaye and `` King '' by UB40 .
Stevie Wonder had a huge role in getting Martin Luther King day recognized as a national holiday in America .
He helped organize a rally in Washington on January 15 , 1981 -LRB- King 's birthday -RRB- , that was a key event in the movement .
With the crowd chanting , `` Martin Luther King Day , we took a holiday , '' black leaders and celebrities appeared , and when Wonder spoke , he said : `` As an artist , my purpose is to communicate the message that can better improve the lives of all of us .
I 'd like to ask all of you just for one moment , if you will , to be silent and just to think and hear in your mind the voice of our Dr Martin Luther King .
`` A highlight of the rally was Wonder 's performance of this song , and over the next few years , Wonder continued his work to raise awareness of the movement and apply political pressure to get the holiday recognized .
Another rally followed the next year , and on November 2 , 1983 , President Ronald Reagan signed the King Holiday Bill .
The holiday was first observed in 1986 , but it took many more years before every state made it a full holiday complete with a paid day off for state workers .
South Carolina was the last to do so , joining the other 49 states in 2000 .
Stevie Wonder sang this to Rosa Parks on her 89th birthday when he attended the premiere of her made-for-TV movie Ride to Freedom : The Rosa Parks Story .
