The first single from Ben Folds Five 's fourth album , The Sound Of The Life Of The Mind came from two places .
Ben Folds explained to FMQB that the first source was his mother , who used to give him `` birthday cards , with quotes which were attributed to Mother Theresa .
For example , ` You may be honest in your life , that honesty may upset some people , be honest anyway .
You might find yourself very successful .
Things that are gon na upset other people and incite jealousy cause you problems , heartache ... be successful anyway . '
So that was back there in my psyche somewhere .
`` The second inspiration was a show Folds played at the Wiltern in Los Angeles when he said to the audience in reference to a ballad he was about to play , `` This is not the kind of song I could stand on the piano and , you know , shake my ass to . ''
Someone in the crowd screamed back , `` Do it anyway ! ''
Folds took his advice and made `` up the bulk of what you hear in the song , at least musically , and some of the lyrics . ''
When he got the board tape , he played it for friends , who loved it.Folds then , `` adapted it a little bit to fit the Mother Theresa thing . ''
He said : `` Also I was aspiring to a lot of honesty in this record with the intention of saying things that are n't comfortable and sort of stripping the ego , taking yourself out of being the dude in control .
` Do It Anyway ' is kind of like that too .
There 're a lot of angles of loss of control in it , but that gives you control .
It 's beyond my ability to actually articulate it , philosophers have had a hard time with it too and they 're smarter than I am . ''
The song 's music video finds the Ben Folds Five teaming up with the puppets of Jim Henson Company 's Fraggle Rock .
Comedian Rob Corddry plays the role of the sound engineer in the clip , whilst Twilight actress Anna Kendrick is also featured .
Co-producer Chris Hardwick said of working on the video : `` If you walk in and you see Ben Folds and you see Fraggles dancing around , and your day is n't exponentially happier , you are dead inside .
`` Another video appearance on Anna Kendrick 's resume is LCE Soundsystem 's clip for `` Pow Pow . ''
The Sound Of The Life Of The Mind was the band 's first album since 1999 's The Unauthorized Biography of Reinhold Messner .
They disbanded in October 2000 , apparently under amicable circumstances , after which Folds dropped the Five from the name and continued making his own records .
