This song is about growing up and moving on from the past , trying to make yourself a better person .
It was written by lead singer Brandon Flowers when he was working as a bellman at the Gold Coast casino in Las Vegas .
Since this was before cellphones , he would call his friends from work and leave song ideas on their answering machines if inspiration struck .
The Killers often play this as the closer for their concerts , and the lyrics , `` I got soul but I 'm not a soldier '' have become a sing-along moment .
Lead singer Brandon Flowers told Rolling Stone about the line in 2009 : `` I can specifically remember being in Ronnie Vannucci 's garage when I wrote it that .
I do n't know why I wrote it , but I know I 'd been listening to a lot of U2 's Joshua Tree and All That You Ca n't Leave Behind .
Some people act like that line is nonsense , and I just do n't understand that .
If you listen to the song , it makes perfect sense .
Our fans get it . ''
The song features the Sweet Inspirations Gospel vocal group , who were founded by Cissy Houston , the mother of Whitney Houston .
The Sweet Inspirations sang with Elvis Presley and provided the back up vocals for Van Morrison on his classic hit `` Brown Eyed Girl '' as well as scoring their own Hot 100 top 40 hit in 1968 with `` Sweet Inspiration . ''
Like their hit `` Mr. Brightside , '' this song has two videos .
The first version has The Killers singing while walking down a London street .
The second version was directed by Dutch photographer Anton Corbijn , and features a surreal , dream-like sequence where The Killers , dressed as cowboys , are attacked by scantily-clad female warriors armed with boomerangs -LRB- possibly inspired by the Russ Meyer film Faster , Pussycat !
Kill !
Kill ! -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , Donovan Berry - El Dorado , AR -RRB- Brandon Flowers says that Lou Reed was a huge influence on this song , as the chorus and the `` got ta help me out '' part were Flowers imitating Reed 's delivery .
Three years after recording the song , the Killers teamed up with Reed on `` Tranquilize . ''
According to Flowers , this song 's bass line is `` a direct rip-off '' from the 2002 David Bowie track `` Slow Burn . ''
