This song was originally recorded by the band Spider , which featured future David Letterman Show band member Anton Fig on drums and Holly Knight on keyboards .
The song was written by Knight , who went on to co-write many hits , including `` The Best , '' -LRB- Tina Turner -RRB- `` Rag Doll '' -LRB- Aerosmith -RRB- and `` Obsession '' -LRB- Animotion -RRB- .
The song first appeared on Spider 's second -LRB- and last -RRB- album , Between The Lines , which was released in 1981 on Mike Chapman 's Dreamland Records .
Knight told us the story behind `` Change '' : `` I was thinking how important it was to keep things real when success starting happening for us .
I had seen several musicians let the fame and success go to their head and I thought that all those things should n't really change a person because what 's inside of you should remain the same .
I think I 've lived my life by that notion . ''
This did n't chart when Waite first released the song , but when it was used in the movie Vision Quest , it was re-released and made # 54 in America .
The soundtrack also featured the # 1 Madonna hit `` Crazy For You . ''
John Waite changed a few of the verse lyrics from the original version of the song and slowed down the tempo a bit .
Holly Knight , who wrote the song , told us : `` I have to say that I much prefer John 's version .
It 's much more guitar driven and I love his vocals . ''
Waite made a video for this song , which was directed by Kort Falkenberg III , who also did Billy Idol 's `` Hot In the City '' clip and Waite 's `` Missing You . ''
MTV had been on the air for less than a year when the video showed up in their offices .
They were craving videos from American Rock musicians , as that 's how they envisioned their format , but these were very hard to come by at the time .
Waite is British , but he sounds American and the video was very USA - it was shot in Los Angeles with a California model/actress as the female lead .
In our interview with John Waite , he said : '' ` Change ' was a brilliant video .
Way ahead of its time .
We were getting like 10 spins a day on MTV because nobody was making videos .
And we 'd gone in and made a work of art , really . ''
This song was pitched to John Waite , who released it as the first single from his 1982 debut solo album , Ignition .
Waite recorded the song because he liked the message , it fit his sound , and he thought it had lots of hit potential .
Waite was going through a huge transformation at the time : his band The Babys had broken up and he had gotten married .
Work on his solo album took him to New York City , where he was away from his wife and his home as he navigated the record industry as a solo act .
It was rough waters , as the album - and this single - underperformed -LRB- Ignition peaked at # 68 in the US and did n't chart at all in the UK -RRB- .
Waite blamed his record company , Chrysalis , for failing to promote the song , and extricated himself from his contract to sign with EMI for his next album .
He was vindicated when that next album , No Brakes , produced the hit `` Missing You , '' while `` Change '' became a fan favorite and found a home on many radio stations ' playlists .
The Spider album where this song first appeared contains another song that would also become a hit for another artist : `` Better Be Good To Me , '' which was later a hit for Tina Turner .
Holly Knight also wrote that one , this time with help from Spider 's producer Mike Chapman .
Neil Giraldo , who is Pat Benatar 's guitarist , husband and producer , produced this track .
Little did he know that the woman who wrote it would provide his wife 's most popular song : the next year , Benatar recorded `` Love Is A Battlefield , '' which was also written by Holly Knight .
There 's another Knight hit-recipient on `` Change '' as well : Patty Smyth did the the backup vocals on the track .
With her band Scandal , Smyth had a hit with Knight 's song `` The Warrior '' in 1984 .
Says Knight : `` That 's six degrees of separation working it 's magic right there . ''
The video follows a woman whose star has fallen and is trapped in a cycle of bad decisions .
Lines of cocaine -LRB- actually powered sugar -RRB- appear on a mirror over the lyrics , `` Look in the mirror and see how you 've been taken . ''
MTV had a problem with this , but the clip 's director Kort Falkenberg III called them to explain that the video is actually anti-drug , as Waite is seen knocking over the cocaine-laden mirror and the woman meets her demise in the end when she jumps off the building .
The woman in the video is Tina Gullickson , who joined Jimmy Buffett 's Coral Reefer Band as a backup singer in 1995 .
