Costello wrote this in 10 minutes while on the Inter-City train to Liverpool between the Runcorn and Lime Street stations .
He thought his lyrics for this song were funny for a 22-year old to write .
In 2011 , Costello performed this on Sesame Street as `` The Monster Went and Ate My Red 2 . ''
He had his numbers lined up from 1-10 , but Cookie Monster -LRB- who does eat other things beside cookies , by the way -RRB- , kept eating the red number 2 , creating a counting problem .
Nick Lowe produced the album .
Costello had recently signed his record deal and did n't have a backing band , so Lowe brought in the group Clover .
Alex Call , who was their lead singer , told us the story : `` Clover got together in the late '60s .
It was 4 of us , we made 2 albums on Fantasy - we were buddies with Creedence Clearwater Revival .
We got dropped , and then Huey Lewis and our keyboard player , Shawn Hopper , joined the band and we kind of made another run at it .
In the mid - '70s , we were going down to Los Angeles a lot and playing a club called The Palamino .
The Palamino was this great Country and Western place .
We were more of a Rock band really , but we kind of were Country .
At one gig , Nick Lowe was there with Paul Carrack .
Nick had been in the band Brinsley Schwartz , and The Brinsleys were big fans of the early Clover albums .
So one thing led to another , and Jake Riviera , who was Elvis ' manager , signed us to come to England , and we signed with Phonogram over there , which is Mercury here .
Elvis Costello was at that time Dec McManus , he was using his real name .
He was just this mild-mannered , meek little songwriter who would hang out around Stiff Records , which was our management office .
Elvis once said , `` Man , I wish I could sing like you . ''
He went to cut some demos , and they used Clover .
Huey and I did not participate in those because they had no need for us , but I remember they went and cut at this little place called Pathways - a little 8-track studio so small that all you had just enough space to play your instrument .
They went in that first session , and in one session they cut ` Alison ' and ` Red Shoes ' and ` Less Than Zero , ' these classic songs .
I remember hearing them at this Rock 'n' Roll house we lived in outside of Headley , South of London called the Headley Grange House .
John McFee brought back a reel-to-reel tape on one of those old Wollensak tape recorders .
He played this stuff , and I mean , I was ready to quit after hearing that - it was so astounding .
They did like three 8-12 hour sessions , and that was My Aim Is True .
That is a classic record , just unbelievable .
We were managed by the same guys and we hung out a lot with Nick .
Nick produced a lot of our early sessions there .
We made 2 albums with Mutt Lange , and nothing happened with the band .
We came close in England to breaking a single , but it did n't work and we ended up breaking up . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Alex Call . -RRB-
