This is the title track of Push The Sky Away , the fifteenth studio album by the Australian Alternative Rock band Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds .
It was their first LP without founding member and multi-instrumentalist Mick Harvey .
Produced by Nick Launay , who helmed the band 's three previous studio albums , the record was recorded in the South of France at La Fabrique .
The 19th Century mansion holds that country 's second largest collection of classical music on vinyl .
According to Cave , Push The Sky Away 's contemporary setting of myths are woven into details of life observed around his seaside home of Brighton .
`` These songs convey , '' he said , `` how on the Internet profoundly significant events , momentary fads and mystically-tinged absurdities sit side-by-side and question how we might recognise and assign weight to what 's genuinely important . ''
Regarding the meaning of this life-affirming song , Cave told The Sun : `` We all have this feeling of the world folding in on us .
Whether it 's environmental , the economy , nuclear or whatever , I do n't think there 's anyone on the planet who 's walking around thinking things are okay .
`` So to me , there 's this idea that we need to carry on and do what we do .
The song is optimistic in that respect .
Of course it 's impossible to push the sky away but we need to try . ''
The Push The Sky Away album debuted at # 1 in a number of countries including Australia , Austria , Belgium , Holland , New Zealand and Portugal .
The Bad Seeds also scored their highest chart placing in the U.S. after the record landed at # 29 on the Billboard 200 .
The album 's cover image shows Cave opening one of his bedroom Georgian window shutters to illuminate his naked wife , model Susie Bick .
Speaking with The Guardian , Cave was at pains to point out the picture was n't his idea .
He explained that he walked in on his wife 's photoshoot for a French magazine just as photographer Dominique Issermann happened to press the shutter button : `` I was more reluctant to use it than she was , to be honest , '' he said .
The song features a children 's choir from the French school not far from the La Fabrique studio .
Cave told The Sun : `` None of them could speak a word of English and did all the singing phonetically but they gave the whole thing a very beautiful , eerie feel . ''
