This is the title track of American metal band Five Finger Death Punch 's second studio album .
Bathory explained the song 's title to Kerrang !
: `` War Is The Answer is basically a statement that for better or worse war is something that will never go away , be it on the battlefield or in our own everyday lives , but it 's also a reminder that deep down very few things in life are about flowers and sunshine .
There are a lot of people in the world who value their own happiness over the wellbeing of others , and this is basically a massive middle finger to those people . ''
The band 's guitarist Zoltan Bathory explained the song 's creation to Metal Hammer : `` The riff is something I had to take out from another song ; it just did n't seem to work there , but I really liked it musically and I did n't want it to go to waste , so I ended up writing a whole new track around it -- that happens quite a bit with me.In terms of the melody , I envisaged there being a big chorus , that kind of thing , but Ivan -LSB- Moody , vocals -RSB- had different ideas !
When he 's angry about something , he just ca n't go down the ` singing ' route , he needs to lash out vocally , and there 's no question that he really lives and breathes the emotions he 's singing about .
Several times during the recording of this one , we had to stop him hitting the wall because it was being picked up by the mic ! ''
Bathory explained to Metal Hammer why the song 's title was used to name the album as well : `` It 's a phrase we 've had up our sleeve for some time , and I 've been talking about it a lot in interviews .
In fact , somebody just said to me : ` If war is the answer , then what is the question ? '
, and I guess the answer to that is ` life ' !
Basically , you 're fighting against something or other right from the start -- fighting for survival with pretty much everything against you , and there are occasions when the only really appropriate response is to punch someone in the mouth !
It 's a pretty involved subject once you really start to think about it , and this record covers it all -- the deeper meaning and of course the more shallow one too ! ''
