This empowerment anthem is the title track to Sugarland 's fourth studio album .
In our 2010 interview with Jennifer Nettles of Sugarland , she told us : `` I love the way the song came about musically .
It hovered around for a couple of days in that I had that little piano part .
I was playing around with that at home , and Kristian -LRB- Bush -RRB- and I came into the writing studio and we wrote part of the lyrics , the ` feels like I 'm flying , wings made of light , ' separately .
We thought it was going to be a different song .
We had n't put anything together yet .
We thought that was actually going to be the chorus of another song .
And then we were also listening to some drums , some rhythm grooves at the time , and he started playing a guitar part .
I said , ` Wait a minute .
Let me go sit down at the piano here . '
And it all came together , the cogs and the wheels just all started moving and aligning , and suddenly we were like , ` Oh , wait a minute .
No , we 're going to make this be reverse , ' and the whole song just really unfolded in this really beautiful discovery .
It was a discovery for us , as well .
It 's always really special when a song reveals itself in that way , where it goes to a refreshing discovery .
Some of them you punch and kick and all of that , and some of them really reveal themselves , and ` Incredible Machine ' definitely felt that way .
And I love the metaphor , because it speaks to the human heart and the incredible machine that it is , and its exquisite capacity to love and to feel and to understand . ''
The Incredible Machine is inspired by some of the artists Kristen Bush and Jennifer Nettles listened to in their teen years such as Blondie , Peter Gabriel , R.E.M. and The Clash .
Nettles told The Boot that in recording The Incredible Machine the pair wanted , `` to explore new territory and allow the genre to grow because , as we all know , if we do n't grow we stagnate .
`` Nettles added that the line , `` Feels like I 'm flying , wings made of light/brand new and shinin ' , like a shot rung out through the night , '' best sums up the bands rebirth .
She explained : `` That 's a wonderful metaphor and image for this newly emerging creature that Sugarland is right now , with these vulnerable but beautiful wings .
The Incredible Machine is definitely us , but at the same time , there is something very precious and new . ''
