The Monitor is the second studio album by New Jersey Indie Rock band Titus Andronicus .
The LP is based loosely on the American Civil War , singer Patrick Stickles explained to the NME : `` It does n't take place in olden times , nor does it necessarily feature any characters that participated in that conflict .
Really , it is a record about how the conflicts that led our nation into that great calamity remain unresolved , and the effect that this ongoing division has on our personal relationships and our behaviour and how they 're all out to get us -LRB- or maybe not ? -RRB-
and yadda yadda yadda . ''
The Battle of Hampton Roads was arguably most important naval battle of the American Civil War from the standpoint of the development of navies , its major significance being that it was the first meeting in combat of ironclad warships .
Both sides claimed victory but present-day historians agree that the result was victory for neither .
The album features guest appearances by various friends of Patrick Stickles portraying various historical figures in spoken word parts .
They include Hold Steady frontman Craig Finn and Vivian Girls guitarist Cassie Ramone who play Walt Whitman and Jefferson Davis , respectively .
Stickles explained the casting of the Hold Steady singer to Spinner UK : `` Craig Finn was an easy one , because Walt Whitman was one of my favorites for the time period , representing a unique and important thing in that time .
Craig is a really great guy , really very open and magnanimous .
I think Walt Whitman would have appreciated what he called the adhesiveness of his character.Furthermore , he 's definitely in the top tier of lyricists today , and Walt Whitman was obviously the premier poet of that time , in my mind .
And -LSB- Finn -RSB- lives in Brooklyn , and that 's where Walt Whitman was from , so it 's pretty much a slam dunk , as far as I 'm concerned . ''
The album title is a reference to the USS Monitor , the first ironclad warship commissioned by the United States Navy , and this epic 14-minute track refers to the battle between the Monitor and the CSS Virginia , which took place on March 8 -- 9 , 1862 .
The release date of the record is according to Stickles , the band 's `` way of celebrating the 148th anniversary of this historic event . ''
The lettering of the album title on the CD cover is taken from an actual letter written by Abraham Lincoln .
Ponytail guitarist Dustin Wong performs the guitar solo on this track .
