Lead singer Richard Ashcroft wrote the lyrics , which are a somber look at the ennui of everyday life : `` You 're a slave to money , then you die . ''
The publishing rights to this went to Allen Klein , The Rolling Stones ' former manager .
The Stones signed a very lopsided contract with Klein early in their career , and had to make huge concessions in order to get out of it .
Part of the deal gave Klein the publishing rights to all of the Stones ' songs through 1969 .
He made far more money than anyone else from this song .
This was the only hit for The Verve , who broke up in 1999 and reformed in 2007 , releasing the album Forth in 2008 .
Their previous albums were A Northern Soul , which was released in 1995 and featured a darker side ; A Storm In Heaven , released in 1993 was a psychedelic rocker ; and No Come Down is a collection of the B-sides from A Storm in Heaven .
After Urban Hymns , Their lead singer , Richard Ashcroft , launched a successful solo career .
-LRB- thanks , Seth - stuttgart , Germany -RRB- The video featured Ashcroft bumping into people as he walked down Hoxton Street , a crowded shopping area in London .
It was inspired by the video for Massive Attack 's 1991 song `` Unfinished Sympathy , '' which was showed the singer walking down a street in a similar manner .
This samples an obscure orchestral version of `` The Last Time , '' a 1965 song by the Rolling Stones .
This was recorded before they got permission from the Stones to use the riff , so the Verve had to sign away most of the royalties from this in order to release it .
Nike used this in commercials .
Klein got royalties from those .
Because this sampled the song from The Rolling Stones , Mick Jagger and Keith Richards get composer credits along with Richard Ashcroft .
Upset that he lost the royalties , Ashcroft said this was `` The best song Jagger and Richards have written in 20 years . ''
This was featured at the pivotal end scene in the 1998 movie Cruel Intentions .
It is meant to portray Sebastian 's ups and downs in life : his sister 's cruel antics that nearly destroyed him and the beautiful girl who showed him how to love and redeemed his life .
-LRB- thanks , Kristy - La Porte City , IA -RRB-
