Lead singer Anthony Kiedis wrote this about his days as a heroin addict and the loneliness that went with it .
The bridge mentioned in the song is a place where he sometimes went to buy drugs and get high .
-LRB- thanks , Laura - Newport , Wales -RRB- Blood Sugar Sex Magik was the first album the band released for Warners Records .
They were previously with EMI .
In 1990 , after the death of his best friend and Hillel Slovak , Kiedis suddenly became afraid .
He was sitting behind the wheel of his car and just began singing `` sometimes I feel like I do n't have a partner ... '' Slovak , who played guitar in the band , died of a drug overdose in 1988 .
-LRB- thanks , Jenni - Bilbao , Spain -RRB- Guitarist John Frusciante 's mother sang backup on this along with two of her friends from church .
Before he left the band in May , 1992 , John Frusciante sometimes improvise intros and exaggerate his background vocals when performing this song live , as he was getting fed up with the song and with Kiedis .
This is evident on their February 22 , 1992 Saturday Night Live performance when he clearly throws Kiedis off at the beginning of the song , then screams his backup vocals later in the song .
The song was covered in 1998 by UK girl band All Saints , where it was arguably changed to a run-of-the-mill love song .
Notable changes were the line `` City of Angels '' to `` City of cities , '' `` I walk through her hills '' to `` I walk through his field '' and a complete deletion of the last verse due to the drug references .
It was released as a double A side with another cover , `` Lady Marmalade , '' and reached # 1 on the UK singles charts .
The Yorkshire singer-songwriter Richard Hawley played guitar on the All Saints version .
-LRB- thanks , nicky - london , England -RRB- Guitarist John Frusciante 's intro drew heavily on the 1971 David Bowie song `` Andy Warhol . ''
His guitar playing becomes more rapid until it reaches an E major seventh chord that halts the song .
He borrowed the E major seventh chord technique from T. Rex 's `` Rip Off , '' a track from the British group 's 1971 album Electric Warrior .
This was the biggest hit for The Red Hot Chili Peppers , but it was not typical of their sound .
This was a ballad , but most of their songs to that point were hard Rock or Funk .
This was particularly challenging for Kiedis to sing during the Blood Sugar Sex Magik tour , but the Chili Peppers became comfortable with the sound and followed this up with more slower singles like `` Soul To Squeeze '' and `` Breaking The Girl . ''
-LRB- thanks , Hillary - Seattle , WA -RRB- The band got a headlining slot on the 1992 Lollapalooza Tour when this became a hit .
The gig greatly expanded their fan base and showcased their skills as a very energetic live band .
This song was originally just a poem that Kiedis wrote .
He did n't write it for the Chili Peppers - it was a very personal poem that he thought he might use somewhere else .
Producer Rick Rubin found it in one of his notebooks and told Anthony that it could be a great song .
At first , he did n't want to sing it or share it with anyone , but he eventually came around .
Rubin recalled to Newsweek in a 2013 interview : `` My thinking was that the Chili Peppers were not limited to being a funk band with rapping .
And I remember Anthony was embarrassed to show the song to the other guys in the band .
But he sang it to John -LSB- Frusciante , guitarist -RSB- and John came up with his part .
Then he played it for Flea -LSB- bassist -RSB- and Flea came up with his part .
And it ended up being a really good song -- even though they did n't realize how good it was until people starting responding to it . ''
-LRB- thanks , Derek - Raleigh , NC -RRB- In his book Scar Tissue , Kiedis explained that he thought up the lyrics while he was driving from a session with the Red Hot Chili Peppers .
He was kind of sad because John Frusciante and Flea were getting closer as friends and Anthony was set apart from that , due to the fact that he was deeply involved with drugs .
That 's why he wrote , `` Sometimes I feel like I do n't have a partner .
`` Kiedis also wrote of the song : `` Under The Bridge ... I started freestyling some poetry in my car and putting the words to a melody and sang all the way down the freeway .
When I got home , I got out my notebook and wrote the whole thing down in a song structure , even though it was meant to be a poem to deal with my own anguish . ''
-LRB- thanks , Tiago - Santos , Brazil -RRB- The music video was directed by Gus Van Sant , who went on to direct the movies Good Will Hunting and Finding Forester .
The bridge in the video also appears in the `` By The Way '' video .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- In Weird Al Yankovic 's `` Bedrock Anthem '' this song and music video is parodied in the beginning .
It then switches to a parody of `` Give It Away . ''
-LRB- thanks , Matthew - Concord , NH -RRB-
