Aldean stays true to his Georgia roots on this ode to small town life .
He explained the inspiration for this song in an interview with Reuters : `` I grew up in Georgia , on the outskirts of Macon , surrounded by a lot of farmland .
That 's what I know .
For any artist , if you can sing about things you 've experienced , then you can convey that message to your fans .
-LRB- For instance -RRB- that song ` Fly Over States ' - I heard those kinds of comments when I was flying out to promote my music .
I 'd hear businessmen from one of the coasts comment as we flew over some small town , ' I wonder why anyone would want to live there ? ' ''
The song 's music video was shot in an airplane hangar at the Army National Guard facilities in Smyrna , Tennessee .
It was filmed 200 yards from where Aldean shot the `` Tattoos On This Town '' clip .
Aldean actually heard the song for the first time during the recording process for his 2009 Wide Open album and considered making it a last minute inclusion .
`` We got the song kind of late , after we had almost finished recording the album , '' The Boot reported him saying , `` and we ran out of room to put it .
I started kicking myself immediately for not cutting the song because I kept listening to the song over and over .
I knew we 'd made a mistake by not putting that on the record .
`` Aldean kept the song in mind and it ended up being one of the very first things he cut for My Kinda Party .
The title references the term flyover country , which is often associated with the Midwestern United States .
The phrase is sometimes used in a dismissive manner , which is why Aldean says he felt so strongly about the pro-heartland tune in the first place .
`` One of the things about my music is that people who are from middle America , the heartland , that 's kind of where I grew up .
Those people have always related to what I was doing , and this song speaks directly to those people , '' he told The Boot .
`` The song is absolutely real , and when you tell a story like that and you deliver it in a way that it 's real and you 're not trying to sugarcoat it , people respond to that and relate to it .
That 's what this song is , and why it 's become popular . ''
The song was Aldean 's ninth country chart-topper and the fifth consecutive single from his My Kinda Party album to reach the peak position .
`` I 've always loved this song , and I really hoped it would be a single eventually , '' said Aldean .
`` I did n't know we would get to put out five songs off this album , let alone have all of them go to # 1 .
It totally blows my mind . ''
