Keidran Jones , aka Iyaz , was born in the US Virgin Islands and raised in the British Virgin Islands .
He was the first signing to Sean Kingston 's record label : Time Is Money Entertainment .
This is the first single from his debut album .
Iyaz , together with Kingston , Rotem and Jason DeRulo -LRB- `` Whatcha Say '' -RRB- , wrote this lovelorn track .
The song 's music video was directed by Bobby Wan and shot in Playa Del Rey , California .
The clip 's concept plays to the song 's narrative ; featuring a Caribbean beach back drop as Iyaz 's love interest takes over his iPod in a romantic twist on technology .
The singer explained to The Sun why he records under the name Iyaz : `` It was my godfather 's name and means ` the boss ' or ` the one in charge ' .
I was always with him so they called me mini-Iyaz - and you can see I 'm not little any more so now I 'm Iyaz . ''
Producer Jonathan `` J.R. '' Rotem -LRB- Britney Spears , 50 Cent , Rihanna -RRB- , the man who originally discovered Sean Kingston , produced the song .
Rotem told Billboard magazine that he saw the star power in Iyaz from the start .
`` Tommy , my brother , gave him a track and Iyaz recorded it by himself in his dorm room .
But we were so amazed -- we were hearing so many harmonies and so many melodies going in there , '' recalled Rotem .
`` I was impressed with what he did with the writing and his vocals himself . ''
Iyaz told The Sun January 15 , 2010 that the song is about a girl he encountered .
The Virgin Island native explained ; `` It is about this girl I met in a shopping mail .
I approached her and engaged her in conversation .
Not everyone takes that step .
You usually see someone , do n't say anything then regret it .
I could n't stop thinking about her . ''
Iyaz continued the story of the song : `` She became my girl .
But we 're not together now .
I 've met plenty of girls but I 'm not looking now .
I do n't have the time That was why we separated . ''
The song debuted at # 1 on the UK singles chart dated January 10 , 2010 , shifting over 106,000 copies .
This was the highest sale for any new year release since the winner of the second season of Pop Idol , Michelle McManus , sold 118,000 copies of `` All This Time '' in the equivalent week in January 2004 .
