This was written in retaliation to childish mudslinging by a handful of individuals who worked at a local radio station in Des Moines , Iowa , where the band is from .
These individuals worked hard to keep Slipknot off the air .
The digi-pak of Slipknot 's self-titled release includes a rough mix of this song known as the `` hyper version . ''
-LRB- thanks , Nick - Paramus , NJ , for all above -RRB- Slipknot drummer Chris Fehn -LRB- # 3 -RRB- talks about shooting videos : `` The video that we did for ` Spit It Out , ' Ice-T showed up , so it was rad , dude .
We got to meet Ice-T , and he hung out on the video shoot and everything , and took pictures with us .
That 's the coolest thing .
Otherwise , they suck , dude .
It 's so boring .
Like , you play the song a million times , you know , and you can barely hear it through these stupid little monitors they give you .
It 's just such a long , drawn-out day that it 's tough .
So videos blow . ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Chris Fehn . -RRB-
This was broadcast in fragments on Mancow 's Morning Madhouse after the station threatened to pull Mancow 's show from their station .
It was also right after Slipknot were pulled from a slot on a live concert in Chicago hosted by Mancow ; thanks to same said individuals at the aforementioned radio station .
The video is based on the movie The Shining , directed by Stanley Kubrick , but using the members of Slipknot in the main roles .
Kubrick touched on themes of madness and mental breakdowns in a lot of his films , as do many Slipknot songs .
-LRB- thanks , James - Dartmouth , Canada -RRB- Whenever Slipknot play `` Spit It Out '' live , they do what 's called the `` zero bulls -- t '' at the bridge .
Corey tells all the fans in the crowd to get down on their knees and jump up when he says `` jump the f -- k up , '' at which point the crowd goes crazy .
The line `` Jump the f -- k up '' replaces the line in the recording , `` Good enough , had enough . ''
-LRB- thanks , jackson - nottingham , England -RRB-
