This was featured in the 1999 movie Eyes Wide Shut , directed by Stanley Kurbrick and starring Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman .
Chris Isaak told us he was honored to have his music featured in a film directed by the legendary Kubrick : `` Stanley Kubrick is one of my favorite directors .
I mean , The Killing is a great film and I watched it over and over .
So when I got a phone call and I remember somebody said , ` Stanley Kubris or something is calling . '
I went , ` What ? '
I was actually backstage at The Tonight Show and they said , ` There 's a deadline on a film , do you want to pass ? '
And I said , ` Is it Stanley Kubrick ? '
And they said , ` Yes . '
And I said , ` Say yes .
Say YES .
Just say yes to anything they want . '
Like , get me on the phone with this guy .
It 's Kubrick .
If he would have said , ` Come to my house and paint the porch , ' I would have said ` When ? '
`` Isaak added that he loved how the song was ultimately incorporated into the movie , and he also revealed it was Nicole Kidman who personally handpicked the track for the film : `` And it was also neat that that film - and this is kind of esoteric , I do n't know if it translates into print - but at the end of that film , the lead character , -LRB- Tom -RRB- Cruise , has been unfaithful and now he 's back with his wife , and she says , ` There 's something else we need to do . '
And he says , ` What 's that ? '
It 's like , F-U-C - you know , that 's ... it 's like , ` What ?! Huh ? '
It just stopped me in my tracks .
Here 's this guy who risks everything because of this drive , and at the end it 's kind of like , yes , that 's there , it 's underneath the surface of all of this .
There 's these other drives that are n't talked about and stuff .
And Kubrick , I loved that he would address those kind of things in a film .
And that I got that song in there and Nicole Kidman is dancing naked to it , kind of made my day .
I have to say I really like Nicole Kidman ; somebody told me they had asked her , they said , ` What would you feel comfortable rehearsing to and dancing ? '
And she brought that song and was dancing to it and Kubrick heard it and went , ` That 's perfect . '
So I have Nicole to thank for that . ''
This was featured in the 1999 movie Eyes Wide Shut .
It was also used in an episode of the TV show Cold Case.This has a similar feel to Isaak 's breakout hit `` Wicked Game , '' which also had a sexy video directed by Ritts .
This song of heartbreak and lust is typical of Isaak 's retro sound .
The song generated controversy because of the video , which was directed by Herb Ritts and featured French model Laetitia Casta .
VH1 considered it too sexual to be shown until after 9 p.m. -LRB- thanks , Mike - Santa Barbara , CA -RRB-
