This song is a mashup of Snap !
's 1992 transatlantic Top 5 hit `` Rhythm Is A Dancer '' and Corona 's dance classic `` The Rhythm Of The Night , '' which peaked at # 2 in the UK the following year .
It was originally featured on Bastille 's 2012 mixtape Other People 's Heartache , and after becoming a live favorite of the band 's fans , the cut was released as the lead single from the re-release of their debut album , titled All This Bad Blood .
Smith told The Daily Record why he decided to mash up these two tunes .
He said : `` They are songs I remember hearing on the radio when I was little and a lot of the music you hear as a kid gets burned in the back of your mind .
I remember those songs really fondly but , for a while , I remembered them as being the same song .
When I listened back to them , I thought it would be quite satisfying to put them together . ''
`` Songs like those by Snap !
and Corona were so massive and got forgotten , '' Smith added .
`` We would play them live and part of the fun was seeing the crowd trying to place the songs and then realizing and singing along and going mad . ''
Bastille 's lead singer Dan Smith told MTV News that the band enjoy taking pop songs and revealing their deeper meaning .
He explained : `` I think pop music is quite nice and malleable .
It 's nice to take quite frivolous songs and make them really serious . ''
The song 's music video stars James Russo as a detective visiting a series of crime scenes .
The Hollywood actor is best known for his roles in such films as Django Unchained and Donnie Brasco .
Smith told The Daily Record .
`` It is incredible having a proper actor involved .
His face tells so much of the story in the first 30 seconds when he is driving .
He is so wonderfully intense and we were so lucky to have him in the video .
He had never done a music video before and he was keen to be involved .
I met him during the making of the video and when we played in LA he came to our gig to hang out .
It was really cool . ''
