Atlanta indie rock band Manchester Orchestra 's third longplayer , Simple Math , is a concept album , telling the story of the band 's frontman Andy Hull from his own perspective .
`` This record is two dueling conversations between me and my wife , and me and my God , '' he said .
`` Sometimes even for myself , it 's difficult to decipher which one I 'm actually talking to .
Everything I 've written in the past has been about those things .
This album is the most realized form of my questioning . ''
Confused about what the video means ?
So was Andy Hull and he told Spinner : `` I did n't really know what it is .
Even when we were filming it I would keep asking , ` What are we doing this for ? '
They 'd be like ` OK , well , we 're going to be putting a giant steering wheel that will whip around and blows out of you at this point . '
It was kind of incredible filming it having no idea what these dudes were doing with just having full trust in them . ''
Andy Hull explained the song 's meaning to Spinner UK : '' ` Simple Math , ' that song is fictional , and the verses are a kind of storytelling of what I think an affair would be like ; the stirring emotion of temptation and lust .
The chorus is written more spiritually , so that 's where the lyrics say ` What if all we thought was right was wrong ? '
-LSB- It 's -RSB- the scary idea of ` Oh God , what if I 've been believing the wrong thing forever ? '
That 's sort of what the record title means . ''
Video directing duo Daniels directed this song 's music video .
Hull told Spinner about the twosome : `` I met with them in New York a few months ago .
We were getting close to choosing , and I just felt this energy off of them that was so young and ready to just conquer .
We really try to work with anybody who 's like that.They looked at that song and they 're like `` a lot of times we have to find the arc and we have to find the story climax , and the hook is n't always there , and like , you know , ` Simple Math ' ?
You 've given us four climaxes over the song .
We can really make something cinematic about this . ''
Hull explained the significance of the deer head in the video to Spinner : `` Our first song on the record is called ` Deer ' on Simple Math , and I kind of encouraged Daniels to incorporate as much stuff from the album as they could into it , so there 's little things all across the video that refer to the full-length .
I think the deer head is terrifying , that 's why I like it .
They really wrote that treatment as like those movies like Being John Malkovich where John Malkovich is John Malkovich but he 's not .
It was like they wrote what they would think would be my childhood .
And in reality , it 's even a joke between me and my dad - -- we never went hunting , ever -LSB- laughs -RSB- .
Both of the guys in the directing team are named Daniel , that 's why they 're called Daniels , and one of them grew up in Alabama where we shot it .
We shot it in his parents ' huge house in Guntersville in the middle of nowhere .
It 's actually called ` Meth Mountain , ' the area that we were in .
They had this treatment of what me as this little boy would be like in this story .
At the beginning , I feel like you get this vibe that the dad 's kind of an a ------ , and by the end you realize I 'm the a ------ .
My dad 's been there the whole time .
I was just too young to see it . ''
