This rockabilly shuffle is the title track and lead single from American folk rock singer-songwriter John Mellencamp .
The song was sent to multiple radio formats on June 28 , 2010 .
The album was recorded while Mellencamp was on the road with Bob Dylan and Willie Nelson .
It features members of his band plus guests such as guitarist Marc Ribot and former Johnny Cash upright bassist Dave Roe .
The tracks were laid down at various historic locations , such as the First African Baptist Church in Savannah , Georgia , the historic Sun Studios in Memphis and the Sheraton Gunter Hotel in San Antonio , where blues pioneer Robert Johnson made his first recordings in November of 1936 .
`` This is my 25th album , '' Mellencamp explained to Billboard magazine .
`` I liked the idea that there was a story behind the record other than , ` OK , here 's just another John Mellencamp record .
So the fact there is a back story of the Savannah church and Sun Studios and Room 414 ... I thought those are all places I would want to visit anyway , would n't it be great to just record there ? ''
Mellencamp and producer T-Bone Burnett recorded the 13 mono tracks for the album during the summer of 2009 using a 1955 Ampex portable recording machine and only one microphone , requiring all the musicians to gather together around the mic .
Mellecamp explained to Billboard magazine that the lo-fi recording process was `` just trying to go 180 degrees away from the prefabbed place where pop music is now , '' capturing the live , present energy of a performance rather than a polished studio production .
`` All the records that we loved , that we grew up loving , were made that way - James Brown 's records , those first five Rolling Stones records , those early Dylan records , '' he noted .
`` You felt like you were sitting next to them and they were playing those songs .
That 's the quality that music has lost , that technology has taken away from us ... so we got them back on this record .
It sounds authentic . ''
