Marshall Crenshaw is an American singer-songwriter who got his first break playing John Lennon in the off-Broadway touring company of the musical Beatlemania .
While in New York , he recorded this song for Alan Betrock 's Shake Records , after which he was signed to Warner Bros. .
Records .
`` While I was there , I wrote ` Someday , Someway ' and five or six of the other tunes on my first album , '' he recalled to Spinner UK .
`` I wrote those in my hotel room .
That was my next move in life , to be a recording artist .
I actually had a sense of artistic direction and off I went . ''
Retro rocker Robert Gordon was the first to record this tune , taking the song to # 76 in 1981 , then Crenshaw 's own version made # 36 the next year .
Though his self-titled debut album was acclaimed as a pop masterpiece upon release , this song was to be his only Billboard Top 40 hit .
However he has continued to record over the next few decades and has also had some success in Hollywood , appearing in the film Peggy Sue Got Married as well as portraying Buddy Holly in La Bamba .
Crenshaw recalled the song 's origins to Spinner UK : `` I was taking basic rhythmic grooves from some of my favorite old rock 'n' roll records , '' he remembered .
`` There was a record that I really loved by Gene Vincent called ` Lotta Lovin '' that had a particular kind of beat to it .
It just really did a thing to my nervous system . ''
Speaking to American Songwriter magazine , Crenshaw described the writing of this song as an ` Eureka ' moment .
He said : `` By this time I 'd already written ' -LRB- You 're My -RRB- Favorite Waste of Time ' and some other good ones , but I really thought that `` Someday '' was a breakthrough .
I liked that it had this hypnotic riff-type basis ; I 'd used the basic groove to ` Lotta Lovin ' by Gene Vincent as a starting point , thought that that was cool .
And I liked the lyrics , they were nice and spare but had some depth , lots of possible meanings and implications , etc. .
There was something kind of mysterious about it and I liked that .
It was one of those ones that came out in a rush . ''
