This is the first single from 2009 American Idol winner Kris Allen 's debut major label album .
The song was premiered on the Elvis Duran Show from New York radio station Z100 .
When it was played , it was the first time that Allen had ever heard one of his songs on the radio .
The positive message of this `` life wisdom '' song was a factor in Allen 's decision to cover it .
Allen told Reuters : `` It 's got a really jumpy chorus that I feel people can really get into , turn the windows down in their car and sing along with it . ''
Script guitarist Mark Sheehan discussed Allen 's version of their tune in an interview with Virgin.com : `` Before The Script we wrote for other artists .
When we write for The Script , there are always extra songs that do n't make the cut .
They have to make sense live and come across well on the album , or we do n't do it .
That was one of the songs we did n't want to put out , but our sneaky label put it out in Germany without telling us .
Then we heard Kris Allen was doing it , and we did n't even know we 'd released it !
We would n't have done it if we 'd been asked , but it is a really good pop song and it works for him .
It worked out well in the end . ''
The song was originally recorded by Irish pop rockers , The Script and featured on the Japanese edition of their self-titled debut album .
Allen told MTV News that the tune had been earmarked as a single once he began working on his post-Idol album back in May .
He explained : '' -LSB- The song -RSB- was actually one that we had listened to really early on , and we kind of just fell in love with it .
Everyone did . ''
Regarding the lyric , `` So if your life flashed before you / What would you wish you would have done ?
, '' Kris admitted to MTV News that if he were suddenly on his way out , `` I wish I would have skydived . ''
He explained : `` It 's random , but I have always wanted to .
I 'm really scared to , but I think that it would be the biggest rush . ''
Allen recalled to Billboard magazine the filming of the song 's music video : `` It was really fun shooting it - we shot it from 8 p.m. until 8 a.m. so it was an all-night thing with no breaks .
-LSB- The shoot was -RSB- set up like a digital clock , but it 's huge , it 's this monstrous thing-like 25 feet tall and who knows how long .
I get to hold a flare , which was pretty cool .
I ended up throwing it at people on set .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- . ''
