This was the last song written by Wainwright 's mother , folk-singer Kate McGarrigle , prior to her death in 2010 .
Her daughter recorded it for her Come Home to Mama album .
Said Martha : `` It 's the last song my mother wrote , and of course I also think that she wrote it for me , and for Rufus .
We wrote songs together , ever since we were children .
As we sing her songs , I think her voice can be heard in ours , literally through our pipes . ''
McGarrigle performed the song just once , at her last concert at Royal Albert Hall in December 2009 .
The record was produced by Japanese musician Yuka Honda , who is co-founder and keyboardist of the band Cibo Matto .
On working with Honda , Wainwright said : `` Making this record was a totally different experience .
Yuka 's approach was very open .
Sometimes I would just demo the song , singing in the closet , which served as the vocal booth , then she would build the track around that .
In other instances we would jam with a few musicians and try to get a live take . ''
McGarrigle 's song is about the legend of Proserpina , an ancient Roman goddess whose story of being carried off to the underworld by Pluto , only for him to later agree she could spend nine months of the year with her mother , is the basis of a myth of Springtime .
The legend is interpreted as symbolizing the growth and decay of vegetation .
Come Home to Mama was recorded at Sean Lennon 's studio in New York City .
Speaking about the album , Wainwright said : `` This record is a culmination of my life experiences so far .
Everything changed for me a couple of years ago and this record is a representation of that and a return to the reason I started writing songs . ''
The album title comes from a lyric in this song .
The Come Home to Mama album cover features Wainwright appearing nude .
She admitted to Jam !
Music that her choice of shot was partly down to having downed too many drinks one night .
`` The photographer -LRB- Mark Squires -RRB- was doing a book on nudes size 12 to 16 and I did n't necessarily -LRB- want -RRB- to be in that book but he was set up with his lighting , and he said , ` Do you want to do some nudes ? ' ''
she said .
`` And I thought , ` Well , you know , I probably wo n't have this opportunity again . '
And then I thought the image was kind of nice .
And then I was playing around with a friend of mine , we were working on the cover together , and it was late at night , and I think I ' d had a couple of drinks , and we tried something with that .
And I thought it was just as good a cover as anything . ''
