When Nail first heard this reflective Rick Brantley , Tia Sellers and Mark Selby penned song about a guy feeling like he 'd got the weight of the world upon him , it reminded him of when he was going through a bout of depression .
He told Roughstock : `` You 're crying out , drinking too much , putting on weight , in an effort to get somebody to recognize it and pick you up .
This guy says , ` I 'm lost .
I need somebody to help me through this .
I 'm up on this hill , looking down below .
Is anybody listening out there ? '
I remember being there .
I would go home to Missouri because that 's where I felt the most normal .
My life had gotten so complex and I wanted to be back in that simply structured town , where everything was the exact opposite of where I was .
I was trying to force this simple quality back into my life .
It was a no-brainer to record ` Half Mile Hill . ' ''
When Nail finally decided to record the song , he had just two takes on the vocal , as he felt it is the type of song that needs to be raw , and it did n't matter if he hit some wrong notes .
Nail was hesitant to cut this song , as he felt there were a number of reflective songs reflecting the past on his first album , and he wanted to stay away from the subject on his sophomore release .
He explained to The Boot : `` It 's a very honest and personal song and something I did n't ever want to relive again .
But somebody told me , ` That 's an important part of your life , and rather than run away from it you ought to embrace it , if for no other reason than it 's always gon na serve as a reminder of what you 've overcome . ' ''
Speaking to The Boot , Nail recalled to the Boot dating a girl one summer when he was 17 , who had no interest in settling down , but would always give him enough to keep him hanging on .
He said : `` To me , ` Half Mile Hill ' is about finding yourself and coming to the crossroads where you look back and you go , ` That moment in my life sucked , and maybe in this moment I 'm miserable , but I can see the light at the end of the tunnel and all of this is going to make me a stronger person . ' ''
