This song was written about Elbow 's late friend , Manchester songwriter Bryan Glancy , who died in 2006 .
The album was also titled in honor of Glancy .
The `` Seldom Seen Kid '' originally was a character from a Damon Runyon book .
Frontman Guy Garvey explained in an interview with The Sun March 14 , 2008 that Glancy was an extraordinary person and when he died the whole of Manchester mourned him : `` He was best man for seven people , including singer songwriter David Gray .
He was friends with homeless dudes who walked the streets and was friends with millionaire rock stars .
His funeral was the biggest the Jewish cemetery had ever seen .
The title is just a gentle way of dedicating the record to him but it 's more about celebrating life than mourning death .
If you lose a friend it makes you appreciate all the others . ''
Lead guitarist Mark Potter told popmatters.com : `` That is a low-fi recording on the album .
At first the song existed without the orchestration and we wanted the contrast between the beautiful opening coming in and just the five of us playing in a room .
`` Garvey added : `` It is the only track we recorded where we all just sat down and played our instruments together in one take .
And we threw the violins in afterwards .
And because he was our mate ... we knew we had to have the best song on the record . ''
Elbow won the 2008 Mercury Music prize for The Seldom Seen Kid .
When Guy Garvey collected the award he dedicated the prize , `` to our friend Bryan Glancy .
Because he was one of the greatest men that ever lived . ''
Garvey added that he would be giving the trophy to Glancy 's mother , Mandy , to put on her mantelpiece .
Garvey told the Manchester Evening News that this song was , `` just a very simple goodbye to our old friend . ''
He added : `` You do n't realize that you 're going to die until it happens to somebody else or you get ill .
Even when that happens , you do n't 100 % contemplate it .
You do n't even give it a second thought until it slaps you around the chops a bit .
And it makes you love your friends a bit more and it makes you love your life a bit more .
Far from being a sad thing , I hope that the record is a celebration of a pretty extraordinary bloke 's life . ''
