Having not performed live since 2006 and rarely been seen in public since amidst rumors of ill health , Bowie surprised his fans on his 66th birthday when this song 's video was uploaded onto his website .
The tender ballad was recorded in the singer 's now-native New York and produced by his long-time collaborator Tony Visconti .
It was released on January 8 , 2013 via the iTunes Store in 119 countries .
The artwork for The Next Day is an altered version of the cover to Heroes , suggesting a further connection to Bowie 's Berlin album trilogy .
Designer Jonathan Barnbrook explained his unusual artwork on his VirusFonts website .
`` The `` Heroes '' cover obscured by the white square is about the spirit of great pop or rock music which is ` of the moment ' , forgetting or obliterating the past , '' Barnbrook said .
`` However , we all know that this is never quite the case , no matter how much we try , we can not break free from the past .
When you are creative , it manifests itself in every way - it seeps out in every new mark you make -LRB- particularly in the case of an artist like Bowie -RRB- .
`` He added : `` We wanted the cover to be as minimal and undesigned as possible , we felt the most elegant solution was to use the original one from Heroes and simply cross out the title of the old album .
It has the detachment appropriate for the atmosphere of the new album . ''
Speaking to BBC News about the song a couple of days after its release , Visconti said : `` I think it 's a very reflective track for David .
He certainly is looking back on his Berlin period and it evokes this feeling ... it 's very melancholy , I think .
It 's the only track on the album that goes this much inward for him .
It 's quite a rock album , the rest of the songs , so I thought to myself why is David coming out with this very slow , albeit beautiful , ballad why is he doing this ?
He should come out with a bang .
But he is a master of his own life .
I think this was a very smart move , linking the past with the future . ''
The single made it to # 1 on the British iTunes chart by 3 pm on the day of its release .
It also made it to the top of the charts in seven other countries on the day of its release .
At the end of the week the song entered the UK Singles Chart at # 6 , Bowie 's highest charting single there since `` Absolute Beginners '' reached # 2 in 1986 .
His previous top ten UK single was `` Jump They Say , '' which reached # 9 in March 1993 .
Writing in The Mail On Sunday , Bowie 's former wife and stage manager Angie slammed the song , calling it `` tired '' and adding that it reminds her of an era she 'd rather forget .
`` I ca n't help but wonder what happened to the musical innovator , '' she said .
`` I 'm not trying to be unkind , but I ca n't escape the feeling that the retro-introspective mood of the song has one message : ` I 'm not going to be here much longer , let 's talk about the past . '
There 's nothing about the sound that 's new either .
The subject matter is tired : it 's a nostalgic look back to the last time he was at the forefront of pop music . ''
`` And , worst of all , the record romanticises and mythologises a period of David 's career I recall with distaste , '' she continued .
`` What I remember of Berlin - where David lived for three years in the late '70s - is lots of sitting around nightclubs , with David pretending he was an extra from Cabaret witnessing the rise of the Nazis . ''
Was the song title inspired by a line in one of Bowie 's director son , Duncan Jones ' movies ?
His 2009 film , Moon opens with : `` There was a time when energy was a dirty word .
When turning on your lights was a hard choice .
Cities in brownout , food shortages , cars burning , fuel to run .
Where are we now ?
How do we make the world so much better . ''
The song finds Bowie reflecting on his time in Berlin , the German city where Bowie and Visconti produced Low , Heroes and Lodger in the 1970s .
Bowie references in his lyrics some of the places that he lived when he was recording those records .
The haunting music video was directed by Tony Oursler and also harks back to Bowie 's time in Berlin .
He is seen looking in on footage of the auto repair shop beneath the apartment he lived in , along with stark images detailing the bleak landscape of the city at the time .
Tony Visconti did n't get to hear the lyrics for this song until about five months after the instrumentation was recorded .
He recalled to Billboard magazine : `` It was just a pretty ballad ; it was called something else , but I forget what .
He came in one day and said , ` I 've written words for that .
I wrote a song about Berlin , ' and I thought , ` How nice .
That 's really cool . '
And he gave me a copy -LRB- of the lyrics -RRB- and got on mic and started warming up , and I read the lyrics and it gave me goosebumps because I spent quite awhile in Berlin , too , making the three albums that are called the Berlin Trilogy .
I knew what he was talking about , because in those days when we were making those albums he did n't live in a very expensive apartment .
He lived in the bad part of town , and he and Iggy Pop and I used to go around to just ordinary beer gardens and sit around and pretend we were German and drink beer .
He got that feeling in that song with those lyrics . ''
Bowie 's conjoined female companion in the music video is director Tony Oursler 's wife , the artist Jacqueline Humphries .
It 's been reported that Bowie and Oursler wanted someone who looked like the singer 's PA during his time in Berlin , Corrine `` Coco '' Schwab .
Regarding the lyric , `` a man lost in time near KadeWe , '' KaDeWe is Berlin slang for the department store Kaufhaus des Westerns .
According to Q magazine , it became a mecca of capitalist freedom for former East Berliners after the Berlin Wall collapsed .
