This is the title track and lead single of Avenged Sevenfold 's sixth studio album .
It marked the first record with new drummer Arin Ilejay .
The stickman joined the band as a touring drummer in 2011 following the passing of Jimmy `` The Rev '' Sullivan , before becoming an official member in 2013 .
Avenged Sevenfold played the song live for the first time on July 17 , 2013 during their gig at the Rock USA festival in Oshkosh , Wisconsin .
Vocalist M. Shadows told Kerrang !
magazine that the song writing for Hail to The King involved an organised , dedicated approach .
He explained : `` We tend to come in and talk about the vibe we want for the song , more than coming up with riffs .
Then we build around that vibe , writing riffs that work with that .
We try not to waste too much time on things that do n't work .
As soon as something takes us out of the vibe we 're creating , we throw it out . ''
The song tells the tale of a tyrannical king who strikes down any who oppose him .
M. Shadows explained to Kerrang !
magazine : '' ` Hail To The King ' is a question about how society sees itself .
From day one , people have elected kings and leaders , people have followed presidents , and they cry over who the new pope is .
Sometimes you 've got to step back and say , ` What are we doing here ?
Why do we need all of these people to tell us how to run our lives ? '
That goes for God above and Satan below .
Who 's the king ?
We have many kings .
It was one of those things when we said the statement , sang it in a song and it was like , ` wow , that really strikes a nerve and means something . '
We knew that some people would look at it as us saying , ` We 're the kings , ' but we were willing to undergo that amount of criticism , when really it was something a bit deeper about society . ''
The band 's previous album , The Nightmare , had a certain emotional heaviness as it found them dealing with the loss of The Rev. However , Hail to The King found Avenged Sevenfold returning to writing metal lyrics .
Vocalist M. Shadows told Kerrang !
magazine : `` It 's just cool storytelling .
We got back to what we wanted the band to be in the first place , which is more fun .
I do n't think metal should take itself too seriously . ''
Guitarist Synyster Gates told MusicRadar.com : about his contribution to the song .
`` I 've been playing a lot of gypsy jazz guitar -- Django Reinhardt and a few others -- so for the intro , I kind of take that technique and apply it to metal .
It added a pretty cool new dimension that I have n't really heard in rock music before , '' he said . ''
`` The whole solo is based on minor blues changes .
I like it when it transfers to that regal feel , which aligns with the lyrics .
A lot of people get confused and think that it 's neo-classical , but it 's really gypsy jazz . ''
The black and white music video was helmed by Syndrome , an award-winning design and live-action directing studio .
In between close-up shots of the band rocking out we watch the story of a medieval prince preparing to take the keys to the throne .
The clip was the first to feature drummer Arin Ilejay , who replaced the late The Rev. The Hail To The King album artwork was created by southern Californian artist Cam Rackam .
The cover shows a terrifying shot of a skeleton king and is titled ` Deadly Rule . '
`` I wanted the cover to be serious , tough , and conquer-esque , '' Rackam told Noisecreep . ''
-LSB- The album -RSB- stirs like an anthem for the modern warrior .
So when it came to the painting , I was inspired by the final shot in Conan the Barbarian -- referenced from the Frazetta painting -- where he is sitting at the throne in contemplation of the chaos in his kingdom .
I loved that idea of the warrior king . ''
Rackam continued , `` I wanted to keep in sync with the album 's themes and lyrics , so I added some heavy satanic elements : pentagrams , inverted crosses and more .
I 'm thrilled with the final result ; the band really let me take the reins on this one . ''
