West premiered this self-professed theme song May 18 , 2013 on Saturday Night Live .
`` For my theme song , my leather black jeans on My by any means on . ''
Chicago is one of America 's most violent places , and here West references the tragedies in his native city claiming that the media have as little concern for poor black kids , as they do about dead Iraqis .
`` If I do n't get ran out by Catholics Here come some conservative Baptists Saying he overreacting Like them black kids in Chiraq bitch . ''
The rhyme echoes previous sentiments West has rhymed about on songs like 2007 's `` Everything I Am '' and The Throne 's `` Murder to Excellence '' in 2011 .
After West performed the song on Saturday Night Live , many reviewers cited its similarities to Marilyn Manson 's `` Beautiful People . ''
It was initially suggested that the tune sampled the Shock Rocker 's 1996 hit , but West clarified that the beat was made from scratch and it was him screaming and breathing on the track .
The song featured in the trailer for Martin Scorsese 's crime drama The Wolf Of Wall Street .
The Ku Klux Klan-inspired music video was directed by fashion photographer Nick Knight -LRB- Lady Gaga 's `` Born This Way '' -RRB- .
It shows footage used in the background of West 's performance of the song on Saturday Night Live .
West has strong words for the mainstream media 's portrayal of him , especially those who criticize his relationship with model girlfriend Kim Kardishan .
He 's likening his choice of a Caucasian woman to that of an ape in a white man 's world , failing to appreciate the beauty of the beast : `` Enter the kingdom But watch who you bring home .
You see a black man with a white woman .
At the top floor they gone come to kill King Kong . ''
This dark , near-tribal tune features production from the French duo Daft Punk who worked with West on several of Yeezus ' tracks .
This was the first one that the French duo recorded for the album and it originated from some unused material recorded for the robots ' own Random Access Memories .
`` The drums we had recorded earlier during the recording of our album , so we had those , '' Daft Punk 's Thomas Bangalter explained to Vibe magazine .
`` It was a great twist of pushing the envelope . ''
Co-producer Travis Scott recalled to MTV News how he was blown away by the changes that West had made to this song within the span of about a week .
`` I was -LSB- in Paris -RSB- and I left and came back to the States to do the -LSB- MTV -RSB- Woodie Awards .
When I came back , he played me what changed in the next week , just new ideas and s -- t , man , and ` Black Skinhead ' was really coming to life .
I was like , ` Man , I 'm learning how to make an album ; that s -- t is coming to life .
It was like a turning point right there . ''
Def Jam released this as Yeezus ' first single in July 2013 , despite West originally stating that there would n't be any tracks serviced to radio .
