American singer-songwriter Christina Perri moved to Los Angeles from Philadelphia with one suitcase and a guitar .
She was hoping to follow in the footsteps of her older , musician brother Nick Perri , the former lead guitarist of Shinedown .
Her breakthrough came when `` Jar of Hearts '' featured on the June 30 , 2010 episode of So You Think You Can Dance .
Choreographed by Stacey Tookey , the song was danced to by Billy Bell and Kathryn McCormick on the show .
The track was rushed onto iTunes in light of the exposure and it immediately landed at # 20 on the overall chart .
The song 's music video was directed by Jay Martin -LRB- Death Cab for Cutie , Cold War Kids , Wolfmother -RRB- and was shot on a soundstage designed as a New York City street .
The clip features So You Think You Can Dance All-Stars Kathryn McCormick and Allison Holker -LRB- who both danced to Christina 's song on the show -RRB- as well as Keltie Colleen , Peter Chu , Chelsea Thedinga , Chantel Aguirre and Eboni Adams .
SYTYCD 's Stacey Tookey choreographed the dancers.Perri 's co-manager Tom Gates told Billboard magazine that it was Perri who came up with the idea for the video .
`` When we were flying back from all those meetings , she was all keyed up and I just wanted to sleep , '' he recalled .
`` I told her she should spend the flight writing a treatment for the video if she needed something to do , and when I woke up at LAX , she had done it . ''
Perri penned the song about a serial heartbreaker she once dated .
The singer stated in her blog the story behind the tune : `` I wrote the song after I went home to Philadelphia for the holiday last December .
I sat in my childhood bedroom and hid from the boy -LRB- with the jar of hearts -RRB- who wanted to see me .
My heart wanted to see him , my head knew better . ''
Perri learned about the song 's placement on the nationwide televised dance competition , following a particularly grueling shift at a Café in Beverly Hills , one that had her daydreaming about dramatic ways to cease employment .
`` I was being yelled at all day .
I got into my car and I was n't 100 feet from the café when I got the call .
I screamed .
Then I cried .
Then I called my mom . ''
Perri admitted to PopEater that it 's bittersweet that so many people can relate to a song that has such a painful meaning .
She explained : `` I go to all these places , and I 've been fortunate enough to meet a lot of people who like the song and to play it for them .
They come up to me , and it 's not like they come up and they 're like , ` This song about the sunshine and being on the beach all day .
I love that song and I totally relate ! '
They 're literally like , crying , and some of them are like , ` I 've just gone through a divorce , and this song made me ' ... but that 's normally the end of that sentence or story .
-LSB- Then -RSB- it 's always like , ' I have hope now , ' or ` I 've gained strength from this . '
Even though it 's really a kind of bizarre , sad , heart-wrenching topic , I feel like the main theme in the song , if you listen , is about getting stronger and not going back to that person that keeps breaking your heart .
It 's a weird one , but I like the fact that people end up feeling stronger after they hear it . ''
