Lead singer Brad Arnold says he wrote this song with his -LRB- now-ex -RRB- wife as inspiration .
He did n't write it for her - there 's a difference .
He laughs when he talks about how wrong he was with his declaration of `` when the last one falls , when all is said and done . ''
But then , who can possibly predict the future ?
`` The song 's just about being away from someone , or missing them , '' he clarifies .
`` And it really does n't matter if you 're here without them for all day or all month .
It 's just kind of about the lonely and missing of somebody , but people kind of take that sort of as a little bit of a sad song .
And in a way , I kind of meant it as a happy song .
And the reason being because it 's talking about being here without you , but she 's still with me in my dreams .
` And tonight , it 's only you and me , ' so the song was really just about that dream .
And being in a state of peace , because you 've got that person there with you in your sleep .
And in that way I kind of meant for it to be a little bit of a happy song . ''
-LRB- Check out our full interview with Brad Arnold -RRB- This was used by World Wrestling Entertainment for a video tribute to the late Eddie Guerrero .
The video tribute was broadcast on the November 18 , 2005 episode of WWE Friday Night SmackDown !
on the UPN Network 5 days after Guerrero passed away .
-LRB- thanks , Chris - Andover , MN -RRB- This is an important song to many military personnel who find themselves away from their loved ones with their lives in danger .
3 Doors Down bass player Todd Harrell told us that many of their songs are written in a way that is open for interpretation , and that '' ` Here Without You ' is a song that a lot of military folks get a lot of things out of . ''
He adds , `` We 're all from the Gulf Coast area and it is a military town .
We all have friends and family who are in the military .
We have a foundation here that the National Guard is a part of and we really want to support the men and women that give up so much to keep us free .
We did tours overseas and have seen firsthand how much the men and women give up to go do what they do .
Because they do n't do it for the money .
It 's just our way of saying thank you , and our way of saying we support you and everything they do . ''
