The first single from Jack White 's debut solo album , Blunderbuss , is an acoustic guitar and keyboard-led track .
It was produced by the ex White Stripe and recorded at his own Third Man Studio in Nashville along with its exclusive non-LP B-side `` Machine Gun Silhouette . ''
The song was made available on January 30 , 2012 at White 's pay-to-join club Vault and at Jackwhiteiii.com .
A week later , it was released on the singer 's preferred format , vinyl .
The sound may be mellow but the lyrics sure ai n't as we hear White and Amanfu singing intensely of love in a bitter way .
Amongst the macabre phrases used are , `` stick a knife inside me '' and `` grab my fingers gently , slam them in a doorway . ''
Speaking to BBC Radio 1 's Zane Lowe on January 30 , 2012 , White admitted he never actually planned to go solo .
`` I did n't really even think of recording under my own name for a long time , '' he said .
`` A few months ago , we had a session booked and someone did n't show up .
So I said , ' I guess we 'll do some of my songs ' ... It kick-started the whole process . ''
White told NME why he chose this as the first single from Blunderbuss : `` That song ended up being powerful enough to my ears that I wanted it to be the first thing that people heard from the record .
It did n't need drums or bass to sell its point and the lyrics are strong enough to make people just think something about how love can trip over itself . ''
`` Love Interruption '' also features the vocals of Nashville artist Ruby Amanfu , who has also had songs cut by such performers as Kelly Clarkson and CCM songstress Rachel Lampa .
In 2007 Amanfu co-wrote the tune `` Heaven 's My Home '' with folk-rock singer-songwriter Katie Herzig , which was performed by the Duhks and nominated for a 2007 Grammy award for Best Country Performance .
Blunderbuss is the first album released solely under Jack White 's name after releasing six albums with the White Stripes , and two each with the Raconteurs and the Dead Weather .
White describes it , as `` an album I could n't have released until now . ''
He went on to explain .
`` I 've put off making records under my own name for a long time but these songs feel like they could only be presented under my name .
These songs were written from scratch , had nothing to do with anyone or anything else but my own expression , my own colors on my own canvas . ''
During a pre-release playback for Blunderbuss in London , England , White explained the meaning of love in this track : `` It 's hard to put love in a song because it 's been used for so long , thousands of times in plays , paintings , poems and , if you 're going to say that word I think you have to really put a twist on it for yourself , '' expounded White .
`` If you 're going to use the word ` love ' , I wanted to provoke some kind of thought that 's what I wanted it to do for me . ''
White performed this with Ruby Amanfu and an all-female band at the Grammy Awards in 2013 .
At the end of the song , he went to a second set , where he played `` Freedom at 21 '' with an all-male band .
