This sing-a-long anthem reprises the theme that runs through the album of a child on the brink of adulthood .
The topic was triggered in part by singer Guy Garvey 's move back to the area where he grew up .
`` We 've got open arms for broken hearts/Like yours , my boy/Come home again , '' he sings .
St. Bernadette 's Social Centre was where all of Garvey 's sisters got married , where he got christened and where he took his first Holy Communion .
The singer explained to Mojo why he set this song in the community hall of his childhood .
`` I really like the idea of this crazy little shack where I used to slide on my knees after church on a Sunday .
I 'm a lapsed Catholic and you do n't really think of yourself as being part of a tribe , but I 've really consciously become part of my family as my parents get older and I start to plan to have children myself .
I think in times likes these , there 's nothing wrong with big , positive anthems of togetherness . ''
The song features Manchester 's Halle Youth Choir on background vocals .
Garvey told The Guardian he considered this to be , `` the biggest , most obvious single on the album . ''
He added that it , `` is about a prodigal son-type scenario , and it describes , in depth , St. Bernadette 's Social Centre in Whitefield , which is where the weddings , funerals and christenings take place in our parish .
That 's not normal pop-song fodder . ''
The song features a line that manages to quote the title of two different productions : `` And you 're not The Man Who Fell to Earth/You 're the Man of La Mancha .
`` The Man Who Fell to Earth was a 1976 film starring David Bowie as an extraterrestrial who crash lands on Earth seeking a way to ship water to his planet , which is suffering from a severe drought.Man of La Mancha was a 1965 Broadway musical inspired by Miguel de Cervantes 's seventeenth century masterpiece Don Quixote .
It tells the story of the eponymous `` mad '' knight as a play within a play , performed by Cervantes and his fellow prisoners as he awaits a hearing with the Spanish Inquisition .
The standard , `` The Impossible Dream , '' originates from the musical .
