This is a single from Outkast member Big Boi 's debut solo album , Sir Lucious Left Foot : The Son of Chico Dusty .
Canadian Scott Storch , who has previously worked with Christina Aguilera , Beyoncé and 50 Cent , produced the track .
In the Chris Robinson directed music video , Big Boi is seen losing his head to a girl , rhyming on a mountain of sneakers and being backed by a band of puppets .
The Atlanta rapper told MTV News about the clip : `` The video concept basically accents different lines with the song , '' he said .
`` It goes with the rhymes .
Chris Robinson was definitely onboard -LSB- with the concept -RSB- .
What he took from the song was a lyrical , visual adventure .
There 's a lot of special stuff going on .
He 's freaking the visuals like I 'm freaking the rhymes . ''
Big Boi told MTV News that the song is a reference to taking pictures .
`` It 's basically a cut that 's all about capturing the moment , whether it be your kid 's first steps or you got a Polaroid and you with your lady somewhere , '' he explained .
`` It 's about capturing the moment and getting them good times .
When you look at certain photos , it takes you back to the moment , and that 's what it 's about .
It 's a funky , get-down , slap-your-sister-in-the-mouth jam . ''
Big Boi explained to MTV News how Scott Storch came up with the beat : `` I was finishing the song ` Sumethin 's Got ta Give , ' with Mary J. Blige .
We was at Lenny Kravitz 's studio , and my homeboy , who manages Yelawolf right now , was like , ` Scott Storch is looking for you .
He said he got a beat he been sitting on for two years that got your name written all over it , ' '' the Outkast rapper recalled .
`` We finished the song with Mary , -LSB- Storch -RSB- came and picked us up - drop-top Phantom - drove us to his house , went in his house , went in his studio.This man played a song at the loudest volume I heard a song played in my life .
The first song he played was ` Shutterbugg . '
Man , it came on , I was just like , ` Boy , give it to me . '
Took the beat , went to Atlanta , brought my band in , keyboard and guitar players , we laid a couple layers of funk on top of it .
-LSB- Producer -RSB- Bosko came in and put the ` talkbox ' on it , made it all the way funky . ''
