This is the title track from Southern Californian alternative rock band Incubus ' seventh studio album .
The group recorded the LP at Blackbird Studios in Nashville and Henson Studios in Los Angeles teaming up again with producer Brendan O'Brien -LSB- Bruce Springsteen , Stone Temple Pilots -RSB- who was also onboard for their two previous records .
If Not Now , When was released on July 12 , 2011 via Epic Records .
Guitarist Mike Einziger discussed the writing of the song with Rock Sound magazine : `` We like to remain amorphous while we 're writing just because making albums is , for us , a constant surprise .
We 're always coming up with ideas that seem so exciting at first , but often the ideas that did n't seem so exciting at first are the ones that push through and seem to carry the most weight .
That song was an example of that ; it was supposed to be a really high-energy song , because when I started writing the album , everyone in the band was asking me when it was going to start rocking !
So that song was an answer to them .
When I started writing it , I had every intention of making it into a high-energy rock song , but it just did n't happen . ''
The song 's music video was recorded at Henson Recording Studios , which Charlie Chaplin founded in 1917 and was subsequently the home to Herb Alpert and Jerry Moss 's record company A&M Records .
It was filmed in the same room where the `` We Are The World '' clip was shot in 1985 .
The album 's title is a reference to a famous quote from the great rabbi of the Mishnah , Hillel , who said : `` If I am not for myself , who will be ?
And when I am for myself , what am ` I ' ?
And if not now , when ? ''
-LRB- Avot 1:14 -RRB- .
Frontman Brandon Boyd explained to Spin magazine it comes from his reassessment of life .
`` I 'm addicted to the news , '' he said .
`` There 's so much at play right now , so many important , catastrophic , beautiful things .
This idea ` If Not Now , When ? '
seems terribly poignant . ''
Frontman Brandon Boyd took to the band 's official website to share some thoughts about this song : `` In the title track , we set the tone of the album .
A stirring in the water somewhere , a long time ago , sends ripples outward .
Beautifully .
Symmetrically , and relentlessly pulsing out , out , out .
They travel countless miles and eventually arrive at shallow waters .
Then the triumphant finale .
The breaking wave , after gaining thousands of miles of momentum , arcs forward into the future ; the wave is about to break .
If not now , when ?
A unique event in space and time .
Never to be repeated ever again .
Now .
Now .
Now . ''
