This is the fourth single from Bastille 's debut album , Bad Blood , which references the Roman city of Pompeii that was destroyed by a volcano in 79AD .
`` It 's a moment of reflection and introspection , but they 're trapped in time so it 's a moment that 'll go on for an eternity , '' frontman Dan Smith explained to NME .
Although Pompeii is never mentioned in the song , Smith told The Daily Telegraph that he was imagining what the dead inhabitants might have to say to one another .
`` It is essentially about fear of stasis and boredom , '' he added .
`` Being quite a shy , self-conscious person , I was afraid my life might get stuck . ''
Dan Smith was not a professional musician when he wrote this song - he was a bartender and student of English literature .
Smith wrote the song in 2010 on a laptop in his bedroom after reading about the eruption of Mount Vesuvius .
He did n't think anyone outside of his circle of friends would ever hear the song , but when he posted some tracks online , they got enough attention to earn his band a deal with Virgin Records .
`` Pompeii '' was included on their first album and became their breakout hit .
Bastille got a blast of exposure when they performed this song at numerous high-profile venues , including the Coachella and Glastonbury festivals , and on Saturday Night Live when they were the musical guest on the January 25 , 2014 episode .
Here are a couple more songs on our database that reference the ancient catastrophic event : `` Cities In Dust '' by Siouxsie and the Banshees `` Vesuvius '' by Sufjan Stevens.And on a lighter note , here 's the theme song to Frankie Howard 's entendre-strewn '70s sitcom Up Pompeii .
Smith explained the song 's meaning to The Sun : `` Pompeii is actually an imagined conversation between two charred conversations reflecting on the city . ''
He added : `` But that 's why I do n't like explaining a lot of my songs literally as it sounds bonkers -- a song about two corpses yet the crowd are happily dancing along ! ''
Despite the song 's subject matter , it gets an energetic reaction when performed live .
`` It 's pretty funny to watch people drunkenly jump around to it at festivals , '' Dan Smith told Rolling Stone .
