The lead single from Christina Aguilera 's seventh studio album , Lotus , finds the singer not holding back on what she wants from her lover as she tells him , `` I am a freak , I 'm disturbed .
So come on and give me your worst .
We 're moving faster than slow .
If you do n't know where to go .
I 'll finish off on my own . ''
The song was released September 14 , 2012 .
Melina Matsoukas directed the song 's music video , which was shot on August 20 and August 21 , 2012 in Los Angeles .
The clip features Aguilera seducing then bashing and bludgeoning a trio of men who only want to love her body .
`` Once we started talking with each other and she heard ` Your Body , ' she spun it in a way that you would n't expect at all , '' the singer told MTV News .
`` And I get to play this character that , yeah , she may be a little bit of a badass , she 's very confident , self-assured , but she 's super playful and super tongue-in-cheek .
She laughs the whole way through the video .
She 's watching cartoons , and you know she does n't take herself too seriously .
`` Aguilera 's red confetti murder takes place at The Pink Motel located in Sun Valley , California , which dates back to the '50s .
The retro motel has been used as a location for a number of films , including The Whole Ten Yards and House of Sand and Fog .
The song marks the first time Aguilera had worked with Max Martin .
The singer explained to Billboard magazine why it took so long for her to link up with the Swedish pop maestro despite her own start as a teen star .
`` Max is legendary in the business , '' she said .
`` He 's known about me but we have n't crossed paths .
I think when I came in you heard his name with Backstreet Boys , 'N Sync , Britney Spears -- those records were the kind I wanted to stray apart from .
If you look at what I did in the past -LSB- after my debut -RSB- , I always try to do things that will challenge me and challenge the listener , too .
Could this have worked 10 years ago ?
I 'm not sure .
It 's taken us a decade in the same business and watching each other from a distance , so for us to now come together and respect each other 's work ethic and how we like to be heard and making a marriage out of it , I think ` Your Body ' is the best culmination of that . ''
The club banger was produced by Swedish hitmaker Max Martin and co-written by his frequent collaborator Shellback , who also co-penned Aguilera 's previous hit collaboration `` Moves Like Jagger . ''
Aguilera explained in a tweet that she chose Lotus as the album title , as it is , `` an unbreakable flower that survives under the hardest conditions and still thrives . ''
