August Burns Red open their sixth album , Rescue & Restore , with this tune .
Drummer Matt Greiner told Antiquiet that this was his favorite song to write drums to for on the disc because of its diversity .
He explained : `` The song has the natural ` flow ' of an August Burns Red song all the way until the middle section when Dustin -LRB- our bass player -RRB- plays by himself before ushering in the rest of the instrumentation .
The drum groove I came up with has an ` afro-Cuban ' feeling and feels paradoxical to the guitar riff that JB wrote .
Sometimes contrasting sounds actually complement each other and I hope people feel the same way I do about that in regards to this song . ''
Guitarist JB Brubaker told The Alternative Press : `` This is the first song we ever wrote in drop B tuning which gives it a little meaner sound . ''
Greiner penned the song 's lyrics on the top of a mountain in Stuttgart , Germany .
He recalled to AntiQuiet : `` I remember exactly where I was !
I hiked up the side of the mountain an afternoon before our show and felt inspired to write about a financial scandal I was victimized by in 2012 .
I had gone through the many stages of grief after realizing my substantial monetary loss in the Ponzi scheme .
After having nowhere else to turn with my anger and distrust in people , I prayed to God that He would show me the good in this tragedy .
The lyric in the middle of ` Provision ' sums up the resolve I felt as a result ; ` I 'm just as much the problem as the man behind bars .
He did with his business what I do in my heart . '
`` The man behind the financial scandal had done a bad thing and hurt many people , '' he continued .
`` He would serve time behind bars as a result of his bad behavior and his ` sin ' would be evident to the world .
But what I realized is that I have things in my own heart that should position me behind bars .
I am no better than the man next to me .
That realization helps in coming to terms with any loss at all in life and helped me find hope and provision in the dark situation . ''
A Ponzi scheme is a fraudulent investment operation that pays returns to its investors from their own money or the money paid by subsequent investors , rather than from any actual profit .
The attraction to savers is that it offers higher returns than other investments , but the system is destined to collapse because the earnings , if any , are less than the payments to them .
The term arose in the 1970s and takes its name from the American swindler Charles Ponzi , who devised such a scheme in 1919 and within six months had defrauded investors of more than $ 10 million .
Regarding the song 's meaning , Brubaker explained : `` The song tells the story of a man who was taken advantage of , but tried to find the positive in the situation . ''
