This is the first single released from Country music band Rascal Flatts ' seventh studio album , Nothing Like This .
The song was written by Neil Thrasher , Tom Shapiro and Jimmy Yeary and was Rascal Flatts ' first release on Big Machine Records .
The song should not be confused to the band 's previous-but-one single release , which was titled `` Why . ''
Neil Thrasher and Jimmy Yeary explained to The Boot that much of the song 's inspiration came from their wives - Lana Thrasher and Sonya Isaacs-Yeary -LRB- of The Isaacs -RRB- : Yeary : I showed up to a writing appointment with Tom Shapiro , and I did n't have an idea that day .
Right before I walked in Tom 's office , I got a text message saying he had to run by the studio to close a mix and he was going to be about 40 minutes late .
I was like , ` Phew , I 've got time to come up with something . '
What I like to do is turn on my digital recorder and whatever happens I 'll get on tape -- maybe it 's something magical .
I still have the recording of the melody to ` Why Wait . '
In my head , I just thought up that opening lick .
Tom came in from closing the mix , and he loved it .
He thought it would make a tremendous Flatts song .
He told me he was writing with Neil the next day .
He presented it to Neil , and Neil loved it .
We got together the following Friday to write it.Thrasher : We were at Tom 's office .
We all got together , and we started talking like we always do before we write .
It all initiated really from Jimmy -- the melody and the feel .
Jimmy came up with the opening signature guitar lick .
It was really good .
He was humming this melody over it.Yeary : Sonya and I were newly married , so all I could talk about was that .
I had just completely told our story about us deciding to get married after dating for only three months .
Then Neil told me about how him and his wife had gotten married quickly.Thrasher : Lana and I actually eloped .
We are always pulling from that experience when we write , and we did again with this song , especially.Yeary : We decided to write ` Why Wait ' because it was certainly something we both could relate to since we both got married so quickly .
After we finished the song , it got demoed a week later .
We knew the Flatts were going in the studio soon .
Sonya and I went on a Caribbean cruise .
We had no cell service for a couple of days .
I knew they were cutting songs , and I had no way of calling anybody back home to find out if I had gotten this Rascal Flatts cut .
We finally dock , and we get some phone service .
I called , and my publisher said , ` Congratulations on your Rascal Flatts cut . '
I 'm hootin ' and hollerin ' , and Sonya hears me and starts hootin ' and hollerin ' .
It was an incredible moment .
Bassist Jay DeMarcus told The Boot why they chose this as the lead single from Nothing Like This .
`` Right when we heard ` Why Wait , ' it instantly caught my attention as we were listening down through literally hundreds of songs on our -LSB- compilation -RSB- CDs , '' he explained .
`` I kept going back to that one , because it 's such a unique melody and such a unique feel for us .
It 's actually a shuffle , and we 've never recorded a shuffle before .
I remember I had a phone conversation with Gary -LSB- LeVox , Rascal Flatts ' lead singer -RSB- and I said , ` Man , the second song on this comp , ` Why Wait , ' is really , really different for us and really catchy , and I think it could really showcase our harmonies . '
So when we went into the studio , we knew instantly that it was something special for us , and it was going to be a showcase piece on the album .
Did n't know it was going to be the first single by any means , but as we listened back through to some of the songs as we started to get the vocals on them , it just rose above the rest , and it became a no-brainer . ''
The song debuted at # 48 on the Hot 100 for the week of September 4 , 2010 , the highest chart entry of Rascal Flatts career .
The Billy Zabka directed music video was shot in Las Vegas , Nevada .
Actor David Arquette plays the man whom proposes to his girlfriend .
You can also play spot the star by looking out for cameos by comedian Ron White , singer Wayne Newton , magician Penn Jillette and Rick Harrison from the History Channel .
