This song is a parody of `` Una Paloma Blanca ; '' it was released in the UK in June 1976 .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB- Wait , why are all The Wurzels songs parodies of other songs ?
Well , mostly because their frontman , Adge Cutler , tragically died in a car accident in 1974 .
That was their songwriter , so after their song catalog was exhausted , the band turned to the Yankovich path of re-written popular pop songs .
For those of you just joining us , who have listened to the song and are now wondering what the heck is going on , we 're here to soothe all you troubles away - Oh Argh Oh Argh Ay !
Because , despite what sounds like the pirate from Lazytown singing lyrics that were written by Popeye and set to music by Weird Al Yankovich 's band , this is the Wurzels , the founders of the `` Scrumpy and Western '' genre.Wait , what 's Scrumpy and Western ?
It 's a British genre centered around England 's West Country region .
It is a humorous folk-music genre all the way , using the area 's local accent , dialect , and attitude to sing about farming , cider , dung , cows , combine harvesters , and other aspects of the British farming industry .
It usually also parodies American country & western music , or if not then other popular US and UK genres .
The lyrics typically involve a good deal of bawdiness , with plenty of drinking and getting under the skirt of a few farmer 's daughters.We were n't kidding when we said they founded `` Scrumpy and Western '' - that 's the title of their 1967 EP .
Look for it near the bottom of the singles listing on their official site .
Wait , why does the band sound like they 're all pirates ?
Brace yourself for a shock , because what typically passes for a pirate accent -LRB- especially in the US -RRB- is actually a West Country , England accent .
This region generally includes Bristol , Cornwall , Devon , Dorset , Somerset , Gloucestershire , Herefordshire and Wiltshire .
On the map , it 's the west-pointing `` tail '' of England .
Gilbert and Sullivan set The Pirates of Penzance in Cornwall , which first planted the association between pirates and West Country , England accents .
Then Robert Louis Stevenson comes along three years later and also starts the novel Treasure Island off in a seaside village in South-West England .
By then , the sound of a West England accent was firmly associated with pirates.Nor is that association necessarily wrong - West England is the business end of the British seafaring and fishing trade , and two famous pirates hailed from the area , namely Blackbeard from Bristol and Sir Francis Drake came from Devon .
So there you go !
