Hammond is a singer and songwriter who wrote this with help from lyricist Mike Hazlewood .
Their songs have been recorded by many artists , including Art Garfunkel , Johnny Cash and Olivia Newton-John .
Hazlewood died in May 2001 while vacationing in Italy .
Other hits Mike helped Hammond write include `` The Air That I Breathe '' and `` Free Electric Band . ''
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Mountlake Terrace , Washington -RRB- Hammond : `` One of my most important songs not only because I think it 's a great song and I love it and I think it tells the story of my life in a way , but also because I was the artist , the producer , the writer - I mean , everything was right , it was just like the right thing .
If I had n't had that , I might have got slowly downhill , you know . ''
-LRB- thanks to Reto Stuter , webmaster of alberthammond.net , for above 2 -RRB- Hammond : `` It never rains ... was written in London , before we -LRB- Albert and Michael -RRB- came to Los Angeles , and we knew we were coming , and I 've been telling Mike the story of me in Spain when I started and how I was asking for money outside of the train stations because I had no money to eat and I did n't want to tell my parents .
My cousin was on honeymoon then , and he came out of the train station and saw me , and I did n't even know it was him ... I just asked him for some money , too .
And he said `` you should be ashamed , I 'm gon na tell your father , '' and I said `` please , do n't tell him , he 'll go crazy and and stop me doing this ! ''
And then he took me back into the hotel , I had a bath , he gave me some clean clothes and some money .
I moved on , but he did tell my father , you know .
All these things like `` will you tell the folks back home I nearly made it '' and all that stuff came from that era of my life when I was struggling , trying to make it , trying to get from Morocco to Spain , from Spain to England , from England to America ... That struggle you go through , that 's It never rains in Southern California , the story of my life . ''
Albert 's son Albert Hammond Jr. is a member of The Strokes .
-LRB- thanks , Paul - Tulsa , OK -RRB-
