Kris Kristofferson wrote this song while living in a run-down tenement in Nashville when he was working as a janitor for Columbia Records - a strange occupation considering he had a master 's degree from Oxford University and risen to the rank of captain in the US Army .
But Kristofferson wanted to be a songwriter , so he turned down a professor position at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and swept floors at Columbia waiting for his break.In the military Kristofferson learned to fly planes and he worked as a commercial helicopter pilot in Nashville , and the story of how he got his demo tape of this song to Cash has become legend : He flew his National Guard helicopter to Cash 's front yard , where he landed and delivered the tape .
The story is often skewed to imply that Cash had never met Kristofferson , but they had known each other since 1965 .
In a 2008 interview with the San Luis Obispo Tribune , Kristofferson explained : `` I knew John before then .
I 'd been his janitor at the recording studio , and I 'd pitched him every song I ever wrote , so he knew who I was .
But it was still kind of an invasion of privacy that I would n't recommend.To be honest , I do n't think he was there .
He had a whole story about me getting out of the helicopter with a tape in one hand and a beer in the other.John had a pretty creative memory but I would never have disputed his version of what happened because he was so responsible for any success I had as a songwriter and performer .
He put me on the stage the first time I ever was , during a performance at the Newport Folk Festival . ''
In a 2009 Rolling Stone article about Kris Kristofferson that was written by Ethan Hawke , it explains that Kris made Johnny Cash listen to the song before removing the helicopter .
After hearing it Cash said he `` liked his songs so much that I would take them off and not let anybody else hear them .
`` Cash recorded the song live on The Johnny Cash Show , and before the show , ABC censors asked him to change the lyrics , `` Wishing , Lord , that I was stoned '' to `` Wishing , Lord , that I was home . ''
Cash sang it the way Kristofferson wrote it , and even stressed the word `` stoned . ''
This song was # 1 on the Country charts for 2 weeks in September 1970 .
It was Kristofferson 's first Country # 1 as a writer .
The original version of this song was recorded by Ray Stevens in 1969 .
At the 2009 BMI Country Awards , at which Kristofferson was honoured as an icon , he recalled how Stevens took a chance on his tune , when he was still an unknown songwriter : `` Nobody had ever put that much money and effort into recording one of my songs , '' Kristofferson said .
`` I remember the first time I heard it - he 's a wonderful singer - I had to leave the publishing house and I just sat on the steps and wept because it was such a beautiful thing . ''
Stevens added that he was drawn to the song because he felt Kristofferson had a `` spark . ''
`` He was very talented , very smart and right on time with his style , '' Stevens recalled .
`` A lot of people since then have copied those songs that he put out so at this point in time it does n't seem all that different .
It still is of course .
There are very few writers who get that spark at the right time . ''
