This love song about a budding romance is the second single from Blake Shelton 's sixth studio album , Red River Blue .
The song was originally written by Christian rocker Dave Barnes and recorded by him on his 2010 album , What We Want , What We Get .
Barnes told Today 's Christian Music , '' ` God Gave Me You ' is a song that I wrote for my wife , just kinda of a thank you not only to her but to God for putting us together . ''
Barnes told The Boot how he came to write the song : `` I had the guitar line and hook and loved it , but I could n't really come up with anything to do with it ... I forgot about it for a while .
Then I got together with a buddy of mine , Matt Wertz , to write some songs and I found that idea again and showed it to him , and he loved it.I got home that afternoon and immediately wrote the song .
The title came to me on a trip to London , randomly enough , so I just added the music and it was off to the races . ''
The song 's visual includes footage from the video that Miranda made for Blake during their May 2011 wedding .
`` There was this wedding video that leaked out on the internet , '' Shelton explained .
`` One of us did it , I 'm sure , by just not knowing how to use a computer !
-LSB- laughs -RSB- So I was watching the wedding video one day and it opened with Miranda talking to me .
That was the first time I saw it .
I just thought what she 's saying to me is so cool .
And the reason I cut that song was because of her and the ups and downs of our relationships that we always had , but always end up back together .
-LSB- She -RSB- said everything that was the reason I recorded that song.Trey Fanjoy , the director , thought it would be a great idea to take that and let it be my chapter in the video , '' he continued , `` and then show all these other things , like the guy in the car wreck and the nurse who comes to save him , and the kid in school who did n't fit in and had the girl who wanted to be his friend .
There are all different scenarios for ` God Gave Me You . '
So that is , hands down , the most personal video . ''
Barnes explained the inspiration for the song to American Songwriter magazine : `` I really loved the song title idea -- it was a bit different at the beginning -- the God Gave Me You idea , but as I kept tweaking it kept getting simpler , so that 's what it ended up as .
It really resonated with me .
It 's about and for my wife , Annie .
It 's really a ` Thank you ' kind of a song .
Because she 's awesome and has been , it was n't too hard to think of what to say ! ''
Shelton first came across the song during a difficult patch in his relationship with Miranda Lambert , before they married .
The country star was driving in his truck back to Oklahoma when Barnes ' tune came on the radio .
He recalled to The Boot : `` For whatever reason I was flipping through stations and landed on a contemporary Christian station , and that song came on and I almost had to pull the truck over .
It was one of those moments for me where I felt like I was hearing that song at that moment for a reason .
`` Shelton got on iTunes and downloaded the song as he was driving home .
He continued : `` I probably listened to it 20 times before I got home that day , and I called -LSB- my producer -RSB- Scott Hendricks and said , ` Man , I found a song I want to cut . '
There was never a question , I never looked back after that .
I knew it was going to be a pivotal song for the album . ''
Barnes told The Boot there is no animosity between him and Wertz despite the song 's success : `` I had to call and tell Matt I had written a song around the idea , which he was totally fine with even though he had asked me to hold the idea for him .
He still messes with me about that .
When I heard that it was making -LSB- Blake 's -RSB- record , I was so excited !
Especially in how it got there : it was n't pitched , it was found .
That 's the best because the artist has such a different attachment that way .
The fact that he heard it on the radio and wanted to record it because it meant something to him and Miranda blows my mind .
It 's still hard to believe it 's on the radio .
Writing so much on Music Row and knowing the process of how songs get cut and picked for radio , it 's amazing to me that ` God Gave Me You ' made it through the whole process .
I 'm so thankful ! ''
The song was Blake Shelton 's fifth consecutive Country # 1 and his tenth in total .
Barnes admitted to American Songwriter that there were some lyrics that he struggled to make a decision on .
`` It 's funny , '' he said , `` there are some weird lines in this song .
I mean , I love them .
But I struggled through leaving a couple of them -- namely ` You 'll always be love 's great martyr , and I 'll be the flattered fool . '
I mean , who says that ?
But I knew it was really unique and cool .
And I never thought anyone other than me would be singing it , so I was n't thinking that way .
I knew I would sing that and loved what it meant .
and honestly how quirky it was !
I love the ` divine conspiracy ' line too .
And the bridge idea -- ` on my own I 'm only , half of what I should be . '
that 's a theme I seem to revisit a lot in my lyric writing .
Maybe i should work on that .
Ha ! ''
