This is a track from English indie rock band , The xx 's self-titled debut album .
Vocalist Romy Madley Croft and bassist Oliver Sim , who first met at nursery school , are the band 's joint lyricists and this track about finding `` the one , '' the person you want to spend the rest of your life is typical of the love songs they write together .
Romy explained in the January 2010 edition of Clash magazine the difficulties of writing a love song with her oldest friend : `` We write our lyrics completely separately , so we are never really addressing each other when we are singing .
Ollie is my oldest friend and they are pretty much love songs so it 'd be pretty weird , pouring our hearts out and directing it at each other .
We both write at home , have our privacy and then send each other our lyrics over the Internet ; it 's quite a removed thing where we do n't need to explain too deeply what they mean .
We can just react in our own way to each other 's lyrics .
I do write a lot at home at night , locked away , hidden away and I shut myself off for quite a long time just writing so I think there 's a theme to this isolation I am sure . ''
Latin superstar Shakira covered this song on her 2010 album , Sale el Sol .
It was speculated that she would record the song under the name `` Explore '' but her version of the song was later included on the album under its original name .
Singer Romy told The Sun October 30 , 2009 : `` I love ` Islands ' because I found it quite hard to write something more upbeat and light-hearted .
We were into this calypso drumming beat and asked Jamie -LSB- beats/production -RSB- if he could help with those sort of sounds like bongos .
That 's what makes that song so special . ''
Romy explained the band 's name to BBC 's Newsbeat : `` Me and Oliver were sitting typing on Word .
And I was like ' I like X 's , I really like X 's ' .
I just thought it was aesthetically pleasing .
X is a really nice symbol .
People always laugh at me picking out X 's in like shadows and train bridges . ''
The self-titled long player won the 2010 Mercury Music Prize , awarded to the best album of the year by a British artist .
Simon Firth , chairman of the Mercury Prize judging panel explained why they went for the XX 's disc : `` It 's one of those records that picked up the mood of the moment .
Also , it 's an incredibly coherent album that uses space in a special way . ''
