This Dance-Pop song is the second single from Spanish Pop singer-songwriter Enrique Iglesias ' ninth studio album , Eurphoria .
The tune features American rapper Pitbull and was produced by Lady Gaga collaborator RedOne .
The song is included on the official soundtrack to MTV 's reality show Jersey Shore .
The song was Iglesias ' biggest hit in the US for nearly ten years .
The singer discussed the song 's success with Jam !
Music : `` There 's not really an explanation when a hit becomes a hit .
And people will try to give you an explanation .
` Oh , well , 'cause it 's uptempo and it 's saying this , it 's saying that . '
If everybody knew the secret to writing a hit song , we 'd all be writing hit songs .
I 've always said writing a hit song is like finding a needle in a haystack .
And the more you think about it , the more you want to do it , -LRB- and -RRB- the farther you get away from it .
That 's what I like about this song .
It was n't really over-thought .
It was n't premeditated .
This song just came about .
But when it was finished I felt like it had a great energy , and I always believed in it . ''
This song interpolates Lionel Richie 's 1983 hit single `` All Night Long -LRB- All Night -RRB- . ''
Euphoria is the first Iglesias album to feature songs sung in both Spanish and English .
`` I wanted both -LSB- languages -RSB- to be on the same album , '' he explained to Billboard magazine .
`` It 's a risk , but it 's a risk I wanted to take .
I was sick of coming out with one English album and one Spanish -LSB- album -RSB- .
And the market has become a single-unit market where people pick and choose their music .
It taps into so many different styles of music - it 's been really exciting for me to experiment and explore new territory . ''
A music video was filmed , which was directed by Wayne Isham featuring Iglesias and Pitbull .
An alternative clip featuring the Jersey Shore cast was also released , this time directed by David Rousseau .
The singer told Jam !
Music about the latter video : `` I thought it was fun .
I thought it 'd be different .
And the cast was easy going .
To tell you the truth , I do n't watch the show .
I know there 's always fighting and a little bit of chaos going on in the show .
-LRB- But -RRB- my friends are starting to pick up the words they use , their terminology .
Like ` grenades ' they use now .
I think grenades means the girls you want to get away from , or something like that , I do n't know . ''
