The first single from Lifehouse 's sixth studio album features the British pop singer and songwriter Natasha Bedingfield , who is a good friend of the band .
Produced by long time collaborator Jude Cole , the Pop-Rock ballad is the first duet Lifehouse have ever recorded .
The song was released on September 9 , 2012 via iTunes .
According to press materials , Wade `` stumbled into '' the song .
Its genesis occurred on a day when he had family in town and limited time to work .
Nevertheless , the singer `` had this melody reverberating in my head , '' so he made a short detour into the studio , `` threw all these different instruments down on tape '' and a half-hour later had `` the bare bones of the track . ''
Working with Jude Cole and Jacob Kasher , Wade and the rest of the band further developed the song over the next three and a half months .
The song 's music video was also shot in Box Canyon .
Wade told Radio.com how the idea came together : `` We did it up at Box Canyon at our manager 's place .
It lended itself to the textures of the album , '' he explained .
`` The place that he lives up there , it used to be one of those Western ghost towns where they used to film all of those Westerns.The video is essentially a performance piece , '' he continued .
`` Natasha -LSB- Bedingfield -RSB- , myself and the band appear in different vignettes and there 's an ominous storm that 's coming towards the camera . ''
Speaking about the tune , lead singer Jason Wade said : '' ` Between the Raindrops ' is a confluence of all these different musical styles coming together .
There is this cinematic spaghetti western undercurrent breathing and moving in the confines of a pop rock song .
The track started as a complete experiment , a sort of stream of consciousness .
Over the next few ensuing months Jude and I rewrote the song at least half a dozen times .
We brought our friend Jacob Kasher in to help us finish the lyrics .
I feel like the song really was solidified and came to life when Natasha came down to the studio and sang on the track . ''
The album was named after the picturesque Spanish town of Almería , which was the location for the filming of many of the classic spaghetti westerns filmed in the mid 1960 's .
The studio at Box Canyon , California where Lifehouse recorded Almería had a similar arid landscape .
`` Sometimes the backdrop of where you create can reverberate through the music , '' explained Wade .
`` This was the case with spending some time up in Box Canyon .
There was already reflections of spaghetti western sounds in the music , but the landscape almost infused some of the soul of the westerns into a good portion of the album . ''
