Gene Simmons and Paul Stanley of Kiss wrote this track , which became their signature song and was usually played as the last song in their encores .
Stanley told Bruce Pollock : `` Originally Gene and I would tend to help each other fill in the gaps .
` Rock and Roll All Night ' came about because we felt we needed an anthem , a song that could be the rallying cry for all of our fans .
So I went back to the hotel and came up with the chorus and the melody .
Then I went down to see Gene and he came up with the verses .
We used to write a lot like that .
As Gene and I became better writers we became either less willing to bend on our individual ideas , or it may have been that we both figured our songs would be stronger if developed by the person who wrote them . ''
-LRB- Pollock is a contributing writer to Songfacts .
Check out his column They 're Playing My Song . -RRB-
This was featured in the movie Dazed And Confused .
The chorus of this song is also heard at the beginning of the song `` Detroit Rock City '' , from the Destroyer album , as part of the intro to the original version of `` Detroit Rock City . ''
-LRB- thanks , Jeff - Haltom City , TX -RRB- On the Kiss Unplugged album , each of the original band members sang a line of this as they played it on Acoustic instruments .
-LRB- thanks , Gary - Steeleville , IL -RRB- Teh American Rock band Poison recorded a cover of this song on the soundtrack of the 1987 film Less Than Zero .
It later appears on their 2006 compilation The Best of Poison : 20 Years of Rock and again on their 2007 cover album Poison 'd ! .
-LRB- thanks , Alec Thorp - Yorktown Heights , NY -RRB- Kiss performed this at the 1999 Super Bowl pre-game show with dancers dressed like the band .
Kiss performed this at the closing ceremonies of the 2002 winter Olympics from Salt Lake City , while Katarina Witt and Kristi Yamaguichi skated to it .
Kiss produced a video for this where they performed the song along with the cast of That '70s Show .
-LRB- thanks , Patrick - Conyers , GA -RRB- The members of Kiss provided their voices for an episode of Family Guy where Peter and Lois are following a Kiss tour .
As the band plays this song , they hold the microphone up to Lois in the crowd to sing along after the line , `` I wan na rock and roll all nite and ... '' Even though most people -LRB- including non-Kiss fans -RRB- know the words , Lois does n't know the words and says `` have a wonderful time . ''
This leads to her revelation that she just pretends to like Kiss for Peter 's sake , which upsets him until they go to a restaurant and meet the band , who recognize Lois from when she was a groupie known as `` Loose Lois . ''
Peter is honored that his wife slept with Kiss .
-LRB- thanks , Bert - Pueblo , NM -RRB- On May 1 , 2009 , Paul Stanley and Gene Simmons ' voices appeared on the television show The Fairly OddParents on the channel Nickelodeon .
Kiss plays the role of the `` Galactic Guardians of the White Wand . ''
The song `` Rock and Roll All Nite '' is played at the beginning and end of their concert .
-LRB- thanks , Zach - Pocahontas , AR -RRB-
