Denver wrote this song with his friends Bill and Taffy Danoff , who were married at the time -LRB- Taffy later became Taffy Nivert -RRB- .
Denver was in Washington , DC to perform with the Danoffs , and after the show they went back to the couple 's home where they played him what they had of this song -LRB- John almost did n't make it - he got in a car accident on the way over and was taken to a hospital for a thumb injury -RRB- .
Denver helped them complete the song , and the next night they sang it together on stage .
Denver knew he had a hit song on his hands , and brought the Danoffs to New York where they recorded the song together - you can hear Bill and Taffy on background vocals .
The Danoffs were hoping to get Johnny Cash to record this song when they wrote it .
They almost did n't play it for Denver because they did n't think it fit his style .
The Shenandoah River is in West Virginia , running right through Harper 's Ferry into the Potomac .
The Blue Ridge Mountain Ranges run in a strip from northeast West Virginia to its southwest across the eastern part of the state .
Clopper Road originates in Gaithersburg , Maryland .
It was a single lane road , but is now a busy 4 lane road that heads to Germantown , Maryland .
No country road anymore ... not even close !
It is attainable by exiting off of I-270 at Exit 10 .
Denver charted earlier in 1971 with `` Friends With You '' at # 47 , but `` Country Roads '' established him as a crossover artist with appeal to Pop , Country and Easy Listening audiences .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The Country Roads in this song are in West Virginia , but Denver had never even been to West Virginia .
Bill and Taffy Danoff started writing the song while driving to Maryland - they 'd never been to West Virginia either !
Danoff got his inspiration from postcards sent to him by a friend who DID live there , and from listening to the powerful AM station WWVA out of Wheeling , West Virginia , which he picked up in Massachusetts when he was growing up .
Danoff told NPR in 2011 : `` I just thought the idea that I was hearing something so exotic to me from someplace as far away .
West Virginia might as well have been in Europe , for all I knew . ''
The Danoffs were in a band called Fat City at the time they wrote this .
They later formed the Starland Vocal Band , who had a big hit with `` Afternoon Delight '' in 1977 .
There was some speculation that Denver somehow screwed the Danoffs when he became famous and they remained in obscurity , but the couple always defended Denver in interviews , pointing out that he brought Fat City on tour and helped them get a record deal with his RCA/Windsong Records .
Denver also recorded several other songs Bill Danoff wrote .
This was released as a single in the spring of 1971 .
It broke nationally in mid-April , but moved up the charts very slowly , as Denver was a little-known singer .
To this point , Denver 's biggest success was writing `` Leaving On A Jet Plane , '' which he performed as a member of The Chad Mitchell Trio but was a hit for Peter , Paul and Mary in 1969 .
Denver pushed RCA records to keep promoting `` Take Me Home Country Roads , '' and their persistence paid off when it became a huge hit that summer .
It was Denver 's first hit , and the first of 13 US Top-40 hits he scored in the '70s .
Clopper Road is still there .
It is a four lane road from Qince Orchard Boulevard to just past Rt. 118 where it returns to a two lane road .
The end of Clopper Road is in a town called Boyds .
From Rt. 118 to the end , the road is much like it was in 1969 through the mid-1980 's .
In 1969 , it really did seem idyllic in a way .
Other than the farms and a few houses , there was nothing between Gaithersburg and Boyds other than the few stores and a few businesses in Germantown , and a gas station/country store at the corner of Clopper Road and Rt. 118 .
Today , the road is built up from Quince Orchard Road to Seneca Creek , but the last mile or two is like it was back then .
The concrete batch plant has been gone for a number of years , the old B&O railroad flag stop is now a MARC commuter rail stop for Boyds , but the rest of Clopper Road has been sold to housing developments .
The trip from Rt. 118 to Boyds and to Dickerson beyond is still one of the nicest and peaceful drives in the Metropolitan area .
-LRB- thanks , Kenneth - New Market , MD -RRB-
