John Lennon and Paul McCartney wrote this in 1958 , when John was 17 and Paul was 16 .
They made time for songwriting by skipping school .
They had written songs before , but this was the first one they liked enough to record .
This was the Beatles first single .
It was released in England by Parlophone Records , but it took a while before they could get a record company to distribute it in America .
The Beatles wanted Capitol Records to release it in the US , but they refused , figuring it would flop .
It went to Tollie Records , who released it in America during Beatlemania , about a year after it was released in England .
When they played this for an audition with Parlophone Records , the producer they auditioned for was George Martin , who became a key figure in Beatles history as he helped shape their sound .
He started tinkering with the song right away , adding the harmonica part .
Fortunately , John Lennon knew how to play the harmonica and was able to come up with something .
When this was released in England , it was not a big hit .
The Beatles ' manager , Brian Epstein , was so confident in the group that he gave the single a big marketing push by buying a bunch of copies of it -LRB- some say 10,000 -RRB- for his record store , which helped get it on the charts and ensured more exposure for the band .
Before they recorded this , Lennon always sang the lead vocal , but when his harmonica part was added , McCartney had to sing it because Lennon 's mouth was full of harmonica .
Paul claims that you can hear the fear in his voice at the audition .
Lennon 's lips went numb from playing the harmonica at session .
He was trying to sound like Delbert McClinton .
This was recorded in mono on 1-track tape .
No stereo version exists .
When John 's Aunt Mimi heard this song , she said to him `` Well , if you think you 're going to make a fortune with that , you 've got another thing coming . ''
McCartney wrote this about his girlfriend at the time , Iris Caldwell .
By 1962 , The Beatles were playing regular gigs at a club in Hamburg , Germany .
They played a lot of Blues covers by famous American artists , and it was a big deal for them when they introduced this into their set , as they did n't know how it would hold up against songs by Little Richard and Ray Charles .
The song was well-received and gave The Beatles a lot of confidence , which led to them writing and performing more original songs .
The Beatles recorded versions of this with 3 different drummers .
At their first Parlophone audition in June , 1962 , Pete Best was still their drummer .
When they recorded this on September 4 , Ringo was their drummer , but when George Martin decided this would be the single , he had them record it again a week later .
At this session , he used a session drummer named Andy White and stuck Ringo with the maracas .
The version with Ringo drumming was released as the single , but the version released on the album had Andy White 's drumming .
Ringo did n't pitch a fit when he got bumped at the session , but was very upset and felt real insecure , especially since The Beatles had just fired a drummer .
The Beatles were very close to releasing another song as their first single .
At their September 4 recording session , George Martin decided their first single should be a song called `` How Do You Do It ?
, '' which was written by someone else .
The Beatles were not pleased and did some lackluster takes of the song before they were allowed to record `` Love Me Do . ''
Eventually , Martin changed his mind and went with `` Love Me Do . ''
`` How Do You Do It ? ''
became a hit for Gerry & the Pacemakers in 1964 .
John stole the harmonica used in this song in a music shop in Arnhem , a Dutch town near to the German border , while the Beatles were on their way to Hamburg .
-LRB- thanks , Leo - Hilversum , Netherlands -RRB- Paul McCartney called this `` Our greatest philosophical song . ''
This song has been covered by The Brady Bunch , The Chipmunks , Dick Hyman , Flaco Jimenez , Madooo , The Persuasions , Sandie Shaw , Ringo Starr and Bobby Vee .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- According to Q magazine , Parlophone employees were n't impressed when George Martin presented this song to them .
One staffer inquired whether English comedian Spike Milligan was behind the record .
