Paul Simon started recording this song when he went to South Africa in 1985 .
He had been listening to a bootleg tape of music from the country , and wanted those sounds for his Graceland album .
He recorded with dozens of musicians in his 17 days there , and he had a great experience with members of a popular South African group called Stimela - drummer Isaac Mtshali and guitarist Ray Phiri .
When Simon returned to America , Mtshali and Phiri joined him for more recording sessions -LRB- this time at The Hit Factory studios -RRB- and a Saturday Night Live appearance .
Bits of the South African sessions were edited together with the New York recordings to complete the track .
Simon says that the song ended up sounding more like the music of Malawi and Zimbabwe , rather than South Africa .
As Simon explained in an interview with SongTalk magazine , there are two reasons for the `` Vol .
II '' in the title .
One is that Simon wanted to differentiate his `` Crazy Love '' from the Van Morrison song of the same name .
The other is that he is talking about a love that has started and stopped more than once .
The opening line mentions Fat Charlie the Archangel .
This character came completely out of nowhere .
Says Simon : `` It does n't represent anyone . ''
Paul Simon is n't big on political lyrics , so despite the myriad political issues he saw in South Africa , he wrote lyrics for the Graceland tracks that told little stories -LRB- this one about a love gone bad -RRB- , and more importantly , matched the music .
This was n't easy , and Simon became frustrated when he could n't get the lyrics to fit .
The breakthrough came when he listened to the tracks again .
In the Under African Skies documentary , he said , `` I realized that the guitar part was playing a different symmetry than I assumed , and the bass was doing something that was much more important , and I might be better off following what the bass was doing .
I started thinking about the lyrics and what effect that would have on storytelling , and I began to raise the bar on my own writing . ''
The same guy who played the pennywhistle on `` You Can Call Me Al '' played soprano saxophone on this song .
His name is Morris Goldberg , and he 's a white South African who had moved to New York .
In the US , this was released as the B-side to `` The Boy in the Bubble . ''
In the UK , it was the B-side to `` Graceland . ''
Neither single charted .
