The song and album title refers to the second law of thermodynamics , which states that because energy is naturally expended and consumed and no new energy produced , unlimited growth is unsustainable .
Frontman Matt Bellamy told NME : `` I got interested in reading about energy .
The second law of thermodynamics is saying that it seems to be gradually decreasing in our bodies , the planet , the sun and so on , but it seems like life , humans or whatever , seem to be going directly against that .
So the album is my own internal conflict of celebrating that strength but also saying , ` F -- , where do we go from here ? ' ''
Speaking to Classic Rock magazine , Bellamy said that he considered The 2nd Law to be very cinematic , adding that film soundtracks had always been a big influence on the band .
`` I 've always been very influenced by and interested in film music , '' he commented , `` growing up watching Stephen Spielberg films or John Williams ' stuff .
And I 've always been a big fan of Hans Zimmer .
He 's the greatest film composer of recent times .
That song ` The 2nd Law , ' you can definitely hear some Hans Zimmer influence . ''
The song was inspired by the Dubstep sounds of such electronic artists as Skrillex and was constructed with analog instruments only .
Bellamy told NME : `` That stuff is capturing the imagination .
The mosh pit has moved from guitars and gone towards the laptop .
With the song we 're trying to see if we can challenge the laptop .
We created something that 's dubsteppy , but we wanted to see if we could do it with real instruments .
We wanted to ask , ` Can rock bands compete with what these guys are doing ?
`` Drummer Dom Howard added : `` We went to see Skrillex in Camden around October .
We went , ` F -- , it 's so heavy , ' loved it .
It was like a full metal gift , they had the circles of death , people were moshing , I had n't seen a reaction like that to electronic music before .
We took inspiration and came up with ` Unsustainable . ' ''
When news first broke that Muse had recorded a Dubstep track , some doubted if the band could pull it off .
However , Bellamy said they 've proved skeptics about the track wrong .
`` The thing about dubstep is it 's really heavy , '' he told The Sun .
`` When it really kicks and the bass drops , it 's like heavy metal with these big build-ups and a big riff that kicks in.For ` Unsustainable ' I wanted to write the idea electronically and then when we came to record it we did it with real , organic instruments and we got a real orchestra in .
We were trying to see if real instruments could make a sound like electronica .
A lot of people were sceptical about it but it works . ''
