The third single from Lorde 's debut album , Pure Heroine , finds the teenage singer touching on disconnection with modern pop music and the difference between on-screen portrayals and reality over a clap-along synth-heavy beat .
She told Billboard magazine : There are a few lines which are kind of me being the ` realistic ' pop star : ` We live in cities you 'll never see on-screen , ' which is like , no one comes to New Zealand , no one knows anything about New Zealand , and here I am , trying to grow up and become a person .
I 've been countering that with going to New York and seeing this place that 's in every movie and every TV show .
Part of me wanted to go back to writing for me and for my friends , and write something that I felt related to us a little bit . ''
This along with all the other Pure Heroine tracks was penned by Lorde with producer Joel Little and recorded with him at Golden Age Studios in Auckland .
Little recalled to Billboard magazine : '' ` Team ' was a beat that I had floating around .
I thought I 'd be able to do something cool with it , but every time I started playing around with it , it did n't feel quite right .
I was at home and I did a melody for the intro section , where it 's just a double a cappella of her voice .
It popped into my head and I was like , ' I can do something where it starts off super slow and dark and it 's just her .
If we can find a way to loop he last little bit and speed it up , then it will be a bit of a twist . '
So I went into the studio with that idea , had her put the lyrics together for that intro , and it went from there .
I 'm proud of that song ; it 's a good one . ''
Lorde told The Fader there are two lines on the song that are particularly important to her .
She said : `` One of them was : ` We live in cities you 'll never see onscreen . '
Because I like in Auckland , which is definitely not New York .
It just felt important for me to be speaking for the minority .
Coming from a small city , somewhere that feels unimportant , you just wan na get out of there .
You 're whole teenage life The other line is : ` I 'm kind of over getting told to throw my hands up in the air . '
Because , there 's been so much of that in pop music , and I 'm like , this is the stupidest thing .
Being told to put your hands in the air ?
That 's the last thing I wan na do right now .
I just wanted to be a bit more realistic .
I do n't if that 's relating to young people in general , or just people who listen to pop . ''
The song 's music video was filmed in an abandoned building called the Red Hook Grain Terminal , in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Red Hook .
The clip was directed by Young Replicant -LRB- The xx -RRB- and features a society of acne-faced misfit teenagers , headed by Lorde .
`` It was important to me that we cast real people with real faces .
-LSB- H -RSB- olla acne !
, '' the singer said .
`` This video was borne from a dream I had a few months ago about teenagers in their own world , a world with hierarchies and initiations , where the boy who was second in command had acne on his face , and so did the girl who was queen .
I dreamt about this world being so different to anything anyone had ever seen , a dark world full of tropical plants and ruins and sweat .
And of this world , I dreamt about tests that did n't need to be passed in order to be allowed in : sometimes the person who loses is stronger . ''
