This character study about a broken-hearted man , who is a Chicago Cubs fan , is a track from Country musician Tony Keith 's fourteenth studio album Bullets In The Gun .
Keith wrote the song with his frequent collaborator , Nashville singer-songwriter Bobby Pinson .
Bobby Pinson told the story of the song in an interview with The Boot : `` Usually before we do a road trip overseas , I 'll fly out to Toby 's house -LSB- in Oklahoma -RSB- and then fly with him to the venue so we do n't have to deal with all the customs at the International airports .
This time , I got there late to his house .
There was a huge thunderstorm happening , so we sat out on his front porch and watched this electric storm , which was pretty cool .
We watched it for about two hours.We probably did n't start writing until about one in the morning .
He had this cool melody , and we changed it a little bit to just meet its own needs.The whole theme behind the song was : if you throw your mind into things , they are just going to be what they are and you do n't really know where you 're going , then you might end up ` somewhere else . '
It was just a catchy thing .
I always have a saying that goes , ` You do n't get to where you 're going by going anywhere else . '
I use that for numerous things , including the music business .
I tell young acts to make up their minds and get where they 're going , because you do n't get where you 're going by doing anything else.This -LSB- song -RSB- is the opposite .
This is a heart-broken guy , and he 's just trying to get through -LSB- life -RSB- one day at a time .
It 's like , `` Hey .
If you do n't know what 's going on or you do n't know where you 're going , you might wind up somewhere else . ''
Sooner than later he would love it if he could wind up in another spot .
It 's just that simple.It 's a really cool melody .
It 's got a groove that we do n't always do together .
I 've never done one like this with Toby , but he 's always real open .
This thing has definitely got a hipper , cooler thing to it than some of your typical country standards . ''
Keith blogged on his website site that this is his favorite track on the album .
He explained why : `` As a songwriter , it 's really clever , wordy and has a lot of craftsmanship , and I really love those kinds of songs .
I can just picture that guy walking downtown in his broke-down shoes .
I 've seen people walk 'til they wore that place off the back of their heels .
He takes a back seat at a front door table , then we flip it in the second verse and the neon light he 'd been trying to get to becomes the front porch light .
He 's lonely and cold , eating his cold TV dinner .
He 's a Cubs fan , and they lose all the time , too .
So he 's the biggest loser in the world .
As light as the song is , it 's a serious issue .
A very different song for me . ''
