This song is written from the perspective of a dying sheriff : `` Mama , take this badge off of me/I ca n't use it anymore/It 's gettin ' dark , too dark for me to see/I feel like I 'm knockin ' on heaven 's door . ''
Dylan wrote it for the 1973 western film , Pat Garrett And Billy The Kid .
It plays while Sheriff Colin Baker is dying from his gunshot wounds .
Dylan cameos in the movie as the character , Alias .
In 1996 , Bob Dylan allowed Scottish musician , Ted Christopher , to record a new verse for `` Knockin ' on Heaven 's Door , '' which Christopher had written in memory of the schoolchildren and teacher killed in the Dunblane massacre .
This is one of the rare times Dylan has officially permitted someone to add to or change the lyrics to one of his songs .
Christopher 's version reached # 1 in the UK .
The title of the song was used as the original title for the Cowboy Bebop movie .
Cowboy Bebop is a popular Japanese Anime that made a big hit in America when the dubbed version -LRB- done in the late '90s -RRB- was broadcast on Cartoon Network in 2001 .
Bebop was known for taking influences from pop culture -LRB- example : The title of episode 6 is `` Sympathy for the Devil , '' obviously a take off of the Rolling Stones Song -RRB- .
When a full length Bebop movie was made in Japan , it was titled Cowboy Bebop : Knockin ' on Heaven 's Door .
When it was dubbed and brought to theaters in America for a short time , they changed it to Cowboy Bebop : The Movie so Dylan would n't take any legal action against them .
-LRB- thanks , Nick - Erwin , NC -RRB- This song is musically similar to Neil Young 's `` Helpless , '' which was recorded in 1969 and features on the Crosby , Stills , Nash and Young album , Déjà Vu .
Guns N ' Roses covered this on their 1991 album , Use Your Illusion II .
They played it in 1992 at a tribute concert for Freddie Mercury , the lead singer of Queen , who had died of AIDS .
72,000 people attended the concert , which was held in London 's Wembley Stadium .
In case you 're wondering , towards the end of the end of this version , the man on the telephone says , `` You just better start sniffin your own rank subjugation Jack , 'cause it 's just you and your tattered libido , the bank and the mortician , forever man and it would n't be luck if you could get out of life alive . ''
Warren Zevon recorded this for his 2003 album The Wind .
Zevon was dying of lung cancer when he recorded the track , and died shortly after the album was released .
This song has been covered in reggae style by multiple artists including G.T. Moore & The Reggae Guitars , Arthur Louis and Eric Clapton.Other artists to have covered this song include Avril Lavigne , Dolly Parton , Bruce Springsteen , Bon Jovi , Cold Chisel , Neil Young and Aretha Franklin .
In October 2007 , 1,730 guitarists in Shillong , India strummed this song for 5 minutes to set a world record for the largest ever guitar ensemble .
