This is often misinterpreted as a song celebrating personal freedom .
It is actually a commentary on how people really want choices made for them .
The song 's statement is made in the last chorus , `` Freedom of choice is what you 've got , freedom from choice is what you want . ''
The lyrics about the dog in ancient Rome who had 2 bones are based on an old Aesop 's fable about a dog that 's walking across a bridge with a bone in his mouth .
He looks down in the water and sees another dog with a bone , and he gets so upset that he finally goes to attack the other dog and loses his bone .
Or , as Mark Mothersbaugh explains , `` It could have been about the Cocker Spaniel that lives in my house .
There 's 2 Pugs , and if I give the Cocker Spaniel a treat , she 's happy until I give one to the other dogs , and then she drops hers and ca n't believe that they have the treats too .
She thinks they 've gotten her treats , so she 's upset until that 's over . ''
Devo will allow their songs to be used in commercials only if they can re-record them for the ad .
As a result of a bad publishing deal they signed in 1978 , they own only half the rights to their songs .
Re-recording the songs allows them to keep all the performance rights , and also lets the advertiser change the lyrics .
In the Miller Lite commercial , the line `` He went in circles 'til he dropped dead '' was changed to `` He went in circles 'til he dropped down '' because the Miller people did n't want to imply that the people falling like dominoes were dying .
Several bands have covered this , including Kelly 's Heroes and Psychotica .
Nirvana used to play it at some of their shows .
Devo was founded by Jerry Casale and Mark Mothersbaugh , who met at Kent State University .
Here 's what Jerry says about this : `` We loved that song very much when we were creating it .
It was about how people were throwing away their freedom of choice into meaningless choices like between Pepsi and Coke , or pink fur shoes or blue suede shoes .
Just mindless consumerism , they 'd rather not be free , they 'd rather be told what to do , because that 's what appeared to us was the case , especially in the Reagan years .
That was a very Devo position - Freedom Of Choice is what you 've got , Freedom From Choice is what you want . ''
This was used in a 2003 commercial for Miller Lite beer .
With this playing in the background , people topple over each other like a giant line of dominoes .
They keep toppling until the line reaches a bar , where the last guy steps out of the way and orders his Miller Lite .
Says Mothersbaugh , `` I liked that one as much as the Swiffer one gives me goose bumps of repulsion . ''
Jerry Casale : `` Today , when people use Devo 's music in commercials , they either completely miss the point or excise the irony on purpose .
Target used ` It 's A Beautiful World , ' and of course , left out the line ` For you , for you , but not for me . '
They just made it a beautiful world straight up .
That Freedom Of Choice ad by Miller Lite shows a guy making his Freedom Of Choice by stepping out of the way of this line of human dominoes that has been falling for 30 seconds .
He 's finally smart enough to back up and let it pass him by as he grabs his beer .
The same with `` Whip It , '' which has been used to sell Swiffer . ''
This was released as the follow-up to `` Whip It , '' which was their only hit .
After `` Whip It , '' MTV abandoned them and most radio stations did n't play this , so it never charted .
Devo broke up after 2 more albums .
Today , members of the band run Mutato Muzika , a company that makes music for films , TV shows and commercials .
-LRB- thanks to Jerry and Mark for speaking with us about this song - check out our Devo interview -RRB-
