Aaron Lewis is the lead vocalist and rhythm guitarist of the post-grunge group Staind .
This is the first single from his debut solo album , which he describes as being somewhere between James Taylor and his Staind hit `` It 's Been Awhile . ''
When we spoke with Lewis in 2011 , he told us : `` I 'm pretty damn proud of ` Country Boy . '
Just because it 's my story .
And no matter how many of those things that are in there are cliché country things , they 're true .
And that 's the difference .
I love that damn song .
I did n't go to Nashville and pick out from a catalogue of songs , songs that I felt fit the image that I was trying to portray .
I wrote that song .
I wrote all those songs .
I mean , it is so old-school country , it 's awesome .
And then there 's other flavors of it , too - there 's still flavors there that are teeter-tottering .
I have n't just completely lost myself in the country thing , if that makes any sense . ''
Growing up in rural Vermont , Lewis spent summers with his World War II veteran grandfather hunting and fishing .
`` Country was the background music to my childhood , '' said the singer .
`` My grandfather listened to Merle Haggard , Hank Williams , Hank Williams Jr. and all of the greats .
When Staind did our first tour with Kid Rock in 1999 , I rode the bus with him on a couple occasions , and we bonded over this music .
I have n't been able to let go of it since then.George Jones and Charlie Daniels are two of the genre 's legends , and Chris Young represents the new regime , '' he added regarding this song .
`` It 's definitely a personal , autobiographical song , and I 'm very thankful that they all participated . ''
When this debuted at # 59 on the Country Songs chart dated February 5 , 2011 , George Jones became the first artist to appear on the list in each of the last seven decades .
He first appeared on the chart with `` Why Baby Why , '' which peaked at # 4 the week of Oct. 29 , 1955 .
Though Charlie Daniels and Chris Young were in the studio the same time as Lewis , George Jones was n't well at the time and had to record his vocals on his own later .
This song features guest spots by Chris Young , George Jones and Charlie Daniels .
`` I 've got to say that ` Country Boy ' is definitely in the stylings of ` Country Boy Can Survive ' -LRB- by Hank Williams jr. -RRB- , '' he told Billboard Magazine .
`` I 'm not going to try and deny that correlation . ''
The video features Jones , Daniels and Young in the studio and draws from Lewis ' family archives .
`` The video really is me .
This is probably the most I 've ever participated in any video that I 've been involved with .
I added a lot to the mix to tell the story . ''
The song debuted at # 100 on the Hot 100 dated March 12 , 2011 .
It marked Charlie Daniels ' first entry on the chart , since `` Still In Saigon '' peaked at # 22 in 1982 .
