Otis Blackwell , a prolific songwriter who wrote many hits for Elvis Presley , wrote this song with Jack Hammer .
Blackwell died in 2002 at age 70 .
The song became Lewis ' signature tune , a perfect fit for his incendiary style .
`` A person tells at least a little bit about himself in any song he cuts , '' Lewis said years later .
This song made the Top 5 of the Pop , R&B , and Country charts simultaneously with `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Goin ' On . ''
Both hit # 1 on the Country charts , and while this sold 5 million copies , which was less then its predecessor , it still charted higher .
In the UK , a similarly raucous version by the female singer Georgia Gibbs was released in 1957 before Lewis ' version was issued .
It did n't chart , but Jerry Lee 's recording became a huge hit , topping the UK chart and becoming the first Sun Records recording to score there .
In 1989 , Dennis Quaid portrayed Lewis in the movie Great Balls Of Fire , which told the story of his life .
In the movie Top Gun , `` Goose '' -LRB- Anthony Edwards -RRB- and `` Maverick '' -LRB- Tom Cruise -RRB- sing this while `` Goose '' plays a piano that still sits at the Kansas City Barbeque Restaurant in San Diego , California where the scene was filmed .
Like Lewis ' previous hit , `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Goin ' On , '' this contained a lot of sexual innuendo , which was shocking for a southern musician in 1957 .
Lewis grew up in a religious household and was conflicted over whether or not he should record this .
He and Sun Records owner Sam Phillips argued as Phillips tried to convince him to sing it .
Tape was rolling during the spat and the exchange can be heard on some Sun Records collections .
`` I thought it was funny because I could see both of them , '' recalled house drummer JM van Eaton to Uncut magazine April 2012 .
`` Sam 's as serious as he could be , and Jerry 's as heated as he could be . ''
This was released in England the same month that Lewis married 13-year-old Myra Gale Brown , who was the daughter of his cousin -LRB- and bass player -RRB- J.W. Brown .
At the time , Lewis was headlining shows with Buddy Holly and Chuck Berry , but when the UK press found out , public outrage forced Lewis to leave the country .
Back in the States , his career faltered as radio stations refused to play his records and stores refused to sell them .
One of the many Rock Stars this influenced was Eric Clapton , who said : `` I remember the first Rock & Roll I ever saw on TV was Jerry Lee Lewis doing ` Great Balls of Fire . '
That threw me - it was like seeing someone from outer space . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- In America , the song was released on November 11 , 1957 , just one day before the movie Jamboree hit theaters .
Lewis performed the song in the film , which gave it great exposure .
Other singers appearing in the movie were Carl Perkins , Fats Domino and Frankie Avalon .
