Tiger Bay is an area of the Port of Cardiff ; it takes its name from the strong currents of the River Severn .
Like not a few seaports , it became famous - or notorious - for its migrant communities , hard drinking sailors on shore leave and everything that comes with it , in particular ladies of easy virtue as portrayed by Jacques Brel in his song about the Port of Amsterdam.Although less glamorous than Amsterdam , Tiger Bay has , unsurprisingly , enriched -LRB- and at times polluted ! -RRB-
our literary heritage .
Girl From Tiger Bay is the title of a 1950 pulp fiction book , while the 1959 crime thriller Tiger Bay incorporated some of the district 's legendary elements , and featured the screen debut of a twelve year old Hayley Mills alongside her father John -LRB- later Sir John -RRB- Mills .
It is not though Hayley Mills who is the girl from Tiger Bay but a slightly older entertainer .
Shirley Bassey is unarguably Tiger Bay 's most famous export , although by the time this song was written the girl in question was in her seventies and living in semi-retirement overlooking the Bay of Monte Carlo .
Check out Shirley Bassey in Song Images .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for all above -RRB- `` The Girl From Tiger Bay '' was written by James Dean Bradfield and Nicky Wire of Welsh rock bank Manic Street Preachers who appeared with Dame Shirley in a November 2009 documentary screened by BBC television about a concept album written by invited songwriters about and for the diva.Bradfield said that more than anything , Tiger Bay had a bit of a looming presence in their minds .
They had tried to include the name in a song title many times before but it had always sounded crass ; this time though they 'd got it right.The diva was impressed with the Bradfield/Wire collaboration , which is based on her early life , adding Tiger Bay was now gone as the area had been redeveloped , but it would live on in that song .
Although Shirley Veronica Bassey has always been proud to associate her name with her place of birth , she spent most of her formative years in the nearby district which bears the unprepossessing Welsh name of Y Sblot , and which renders even worse in English , but `` The Girl From Splott '' does n't have quite the same ring to it .
