Written by George Harrison , this was one of his first songs included on a Beatles album .
He took on more of a songwriting role in his later years with The Beatles and as a solo artist .
The album Rubber Soul marks the point at which The Beatles starting breaking out of their `` Fab Four '' image and started growing artistically .
Critics went nuts over it .
`` Think For Yourself '' is an excellent example , seeing George Harrison finally come into his own as a songwriter and Paul McCartney experimenting with the fuzz bass .
Even Ringo playing the maracas and John Lennon lending that folk-rock edge with the tambourine.Producer George Martin was also developing artistically , experimenting with an eye towards making the album sound good on either a stereo or monaural player .
So Harrison 's vocals on `` Think For Yourself '' is double-tracked , then split between the right and left channels .
In 1968 , this was included in The Beatles movie Yellow Submarine .
This song can be a shock the first time you hear it .
It takes the typical `` silly love songs '' trope characteristic of The Beatles at the time and stands it right on its nose , by being an actual breakup song .
And a dark and sour one at that !
Paul McCartney played his bass through a distortion box to get a fuzz effect that dominates the song , snarling like an angry dog .
The lyrics are saturated with negative words : `` misery , '' `` lies , '' `` ruins . ''
The downbeat tune sounds like the end of the world is coming , almost over-dramatic .
Note the slight wobble in the group 's harmonics - for instance , in the word ` time ' on the lyric `` you 've got time to rectify all the things that you should . ''
It comes in just a little higher , sounding slightly more strained or sharper .
This might be partly a deliberate effect , but the various vocal quirks on Rubber Soul also are an effect of the rushed recording to get the album in the can by Christmas .
Still , these small imperfections also give the whole album a warmer , more natural feeling .
