This torch song was originally a hit for Californian singer/actress Julie London in 1955 peaking at # 9 in the US .
Two years later , the song became an international smash after featuring in the movie The Girl Ca n't Help It .
Julie London 's husband , jazz musician Bobby Troup , wrote the theme tune to the film .
The song was written by written by Arthur Hamilton and first published in 1953 , intended to be sung by Ella Fitzgerald in her 1955 film Pete Kelly 's Blues .
The song was squeezed out of the film schedule , and Ella went ahead and recorded it anyway for her 1961 album Clap Hands , Here Comes Charlie !
Joe Cocker generated the only American hit version of this song when his 1970 recording from Mad Dogs and Englishmen went to # 11 in the US .
Aerosmith covered it in 1982 , then UK singer/actress Denise Welch in 1995 -LRB- # 23 UK -RRB- , then Canadian artist Michael Bublé took it to UK # 34 in 2009 on the coattails of Boyle 's X Factor performance ; his version was used by the BBC network as the theme music to the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics .
There 's dozens of far more obscure covers as well , including one by Combustible Edison - they 're the ones who did `` Vertigogo , '' the theme to the 1995 comedy film Four Rooms .
Yes , if you 've seen that film , that 's a tough one to get out of your head .
Sorry .
Susan Boyle 's brother Gerry Boyle told Radaronline/com that she originally recorded this at Heartbeat Studios in Scotland many years ago .
He recalled : `` The former manager of the Bay City Rollers , David Valentine , gave Susan her first break and the technicians at Heartbeat Studios all said that they were ` blown away ' with Susan 's performance back then . ''
Soundtrack usage includes the films Passion of Mind -LRB- 2000 -RRB- , V for Vendetta -LRB- 2006 -RRB- , and Repo Men -LRB- 2010 -RRB- -LRB- not at aaaaalll to be confused with the 1984 cult classic Repo Man -RRB- .
The song had a resurgence in popularity after an appearance by Scottish amateur singer Susan Boyle on the reality show Britain 's Got Talent , when she sang `` I Dreamed a Dream '' from the musical Les Miserables .
The contrast between her mousy appearance and her fine singing voice triggered global interest and within days a 1999 rendition by Boyle of this song on a charity single had been uploaded onto YouTube .
Her performance immediately became an internet sensation .
This tune should not be confused with Justin Timberlake 's 2002 song of the same name .
Susan Boyle explained this song in publicity materials : `` About bitterness and anger as a relationship between a boy and girl has ended .
This timeless song is from the film Breakfast At Tiffany 's .
-LRB- Note : It appears Susan has got this song mixed up with Moon River -RRB- .
A release of tension and a greater insight into the human condition . ''
BBC Radio 2 DJ Sarah Kennedy dedicated this song to the people of Cumbria in the north west of England , after many of them were forced to evacuate their homes after a series of floods .
