This track from American singer-songwriter Norah Jones ' fourth album , The Fall is a co-write with alternative country/rock singer-songwriter Ryan Adams .
Jones told Uncut magazine how it came about : `` We 've been friends for a few years .
We were playing stuff for each other , and I played him a song that I could n't finish .
He finished it for me in 10 minutes !
We did it by taking the guitar out , and putting in this crazy organ sample .
It 's an interesting way of working ! ''
The album is n't Jones ' first Tom Waits connection .
She recorded his `` The Long Way Home '' on her second album , Feels Like Home .
King arranged for Jones to share the studio with musicians like Joey Waronker -LRB- Beck 's frequent drummer -RRB- , James Gadson -LRB- Bill Withers -RRB- , keyboardist James Poyser -LRB- Erykah Badu , Al Green -RRB- , and guitarists Marc Ribot and Smokey Hormel , both of whom featured on Waits ' Mule Variations .
Jacquire King , a noted producer and engineer who has worked with Kings of Leon , Tom Waits , and Modest Mouse was hired to helm the album , which sees Jones veering in a rockier direction .
She explained in press materials .
`` As far as a producer , I wanted someone who could take me out of my comfort zone and find the right musicians to capture what I wanted to do with this collection of songs .
I got in touch with Jacquire initially because he engineered one of my favorite records of all time , Tom Waits ' Mule Variations .
He was really eager to do it and we got along really well , which was important . ''
Jones explained how this song helped her to set upon the fresh course she wanted on The Fall : `` For this album , I wanted to keep my country side away , so I needed to figure out how to make this song work and tie it in with the others .
We did it by taking the guitar out , and there was this crazy organ sample and it sounded like a razor blade underneath everything .
It was this cool moment where I realized that you can just strip away some of the elements and you can get something totally new . ''
Jones told Mojo magazine December 2009 that because of some advice given to her by Ryan Adams , the songs on The Fall are `` from my heart and guts . ''
She explained : `` He 's a very quick writer , and I freeze and feel stupid around people like that .
But every time I told him I was trying to write he would say : ` What do you mean trying ?
Just do it ! '
He showed me how to stop worrying about writing a follow-up to my last hit and just get on with it . ''
