Keith wrote this song from the perspective of a soldier on duty in the Middle East , during a USO tour of Afghanistan , close to the Pakistan border .
This has a vintage Muscle Shoals/Memphis feel .
Other Keith recordings like the Philly-soul inspired `` A Little Too Late '' seem to reveal a love of R&B .
AOL asked Keith if this was the case .
He replied : `` It 's more a Stevie Ray Vaughan/Fabulous Thunderbirds kind of influence .
I 'm from Oklahoma .
Texas would n't claim me because they only claim their own , but I played all the bars in Texas 90 percent of the time that I played .
I was around Austin a lot , saw a lot of blues bands .
My first booking agent and independent record deal was in San Antonio .
And my grandmother 's band played a lot of blues in their repertoire , when she owned her nightclub .
So it would 've been more a Stevie Ray Vaughan , ZZ Top , Fabulous Thunderbirds thing , from working so much in Texas .
I 'm only 190 miles north of Dallas . ''
Keith told AOL about the original inspiration for this bluesy number : `` I was at a base that was so under fire that they had no lights on the base at night .
I always go outside and hang out with the troops a little bit when you 're not signing autographs and doing all that stuff - exchanging coins , patting each other on the back .
When we 're all just sitting around , enjoying our time , I 'll fire me a big cigar .
They 'd let you do that , and they also gave you a little blue-light necklace that shines a little spot of blue at your feet , where you can go to the men 's room.I was standing out there , and you could see a firefight going on in the mountains , and I said , ` What 's the firefight just north of here ? '
The soldier says , ` That 's not north , sir , that 's east .
That 's the Pakistan border . '
I said , ` Well , there 's the North Star , right above it . '
And he goes , ` How do you know that 's the North Star ? '
I said , ` Because right there 's the Big Dipper . '
He said , ` Wow , I never noticed it , but the stars here look just like they do back home . '
I said , ` Of course , they do . '
We ended up talking -- he 'd been on 15-month deployment , he was getting to go home in three months .
He had n't seen his fiancée in 15 months .
He reached down - you know , they carry everything on them - and dug into his battle gear and said , ` That 's my baby , and I ca n't wait to see her again .
I hope she still loves me . '
I just took all that and absorbed it .
Being as I went in a blues direction , I needed me a really blues hook .
When it rolled out - ` Missing Me Some You ' - I knew it was something I wanted to finish . ''
