This is the title track from American Country music recording artist Kenny Chesney 's fourteenth album .
The song was written and originally recorded by the Country singer-songwriter Guy Clark on his 2009 album , Somedays The Song Writes You .
Clark , whose music career started in the '60s , told us : `` There 's a lot of stuff I wrote early that I would n't write now .
But that 's just growing up .
It certainly does n't get easier . ''
Chesney explained to Billboard magazine what prompted him to cover this track : `` My favorite book ever is The Old Man and the Sea .
Those two characters in that book remind me of the relationship I had with my grandfather .
It was an important one .
I 've been asked many times , on many different occasions , if there was one person you 'd want to sit and have a beer with , living or dead , who would it be ?
And it would probably be Ernest Hemingway .
He 's traveled , he 's met all these wonderful characters , he 's written about them , he 's loved , he 's lost love , he 's lived with regret , he 's lived with depression , he 's lived with so much stuff .
Why would n't you want to have a beer and pick his brain ... on a good day ?
And he loved life.When I saw the title on a Guy Clark record , I was curious .
I wonder what that means , wonder what he 's talking about ?
And I listened to it , and it 's a celebration of how he kind of walked between the raindrops .
I do that a lot .
I 've spent a lot of time on my boat down in the Keys and over in Bimini and the Bahamas , and those are all places where he hung out .
I have n't been to Cuba yet .
But when I heard this song , it just took me to those places .
It took me to a state of mind .
I love that part of the song where it says , `` Sail away , sail away , three sheets to the wind/live hard , die hard , this one 's for him . ''
Because I do , I live a pretty fast life .
Even though I 'm very healthy and regimented in my diet and everything , we live hard .
We do n't live as hard as the guys on Deadliest Catch , now they live hard .
But we 're in a different place every day , we 're a lot like modern day pirates .
So I get what that line is .
It 's not about being drunk at all .
It 's about being pedal to the metal .
When I heard that line , it about killed me .
I felt this odd kinship to that song.I do n't know what I 'd ask Hemingway if I had a beer with him .
We 'd have to have whiskey , I guess . ''
Chesney explained why he this was the perfect candidate to be the title track : `` I was sitting in my truck and a friend had given me Guy 's album , which had just come out .
It 's a song that talks about living life to its fullest , being a man about your responsibilities and not compromising .
As soon as I heard it , I knew I had to cut it - and call the album that - because it says everything about the way you live your life , and what life can be if you refuse to buy into limits , which , as someone who 's read all his books , is everything Hemingway 's novels revolved around . ''
