This is the first single to be released from alternative rock duo The Ting Tings second album , Massage Kunst .
The song was premiered on BBC Radio 1 in the UK on August 18th 2010 .
The Ting Tings hooked up with their label mate - electro DJ and producer Calvin Harris - for this song .
The Scottish dance musician had previously done a few remixes for their hit single , `` We Started Nothing . ''
`` We record our own music and play all the parts , so like on our first record it was important for us to get some distance from our production in the mix process , '' White told Spinner UK .
`` Calvin creates amazing pop mixes with his own music .
We imagine him to work in similar ways to ourselves , avoiding many traditional recording methods in commercial conveyor-type studios .
All our best music is produced in a self-created bubble zone , a personal space , carving up ideas and impatiently recording live performances .
He was quick as hell and nailed all the main points of the track instantly .
A good mix should make you feel even better about your track .
We lost nothing and gained everything with his mix . ''
The song was meant to be an underground , white label-only release and the duo were upset when it ended up being playlisted on BBC Radio 1 .
This was the first song the pair wrote after an exhausting year and a half on the road , which is reflected when Katie White sings , `` clap your hands if you 're working too hard . ''
She explained the lyric to Spinner UK : `` Traveling around the world , we saw how hard people worked .
With our hectic tour schedule , we experienced it firsthand .
People should have a little more time for themselves . ''
This is not the only song on the album that deals with the subject matter of overworking .
Jules De Martino of the Ting Tings told the NME : `` Our A&R man -LRB- Mike Pickering -RRB- came round to have a listen to some of the stuff we 'd been working on .
We played him ` Hands , ' which is about working too hard , then ` Day To Day ' , similar theme , then ` Help ' ... By the fourth track he was like , ` Ok , I think I see what this record is about ... '' After spending nine months working on Massage Kunst in a German jazz club , the Ting Ting pair found themselves unsettled by their labels excitement over its commercial prospects so they scrapped six of the ten songs and started afresh .
`` Hands '' was one of the survivors and was a bonus track on the Deluxe version of Sounds From Nowheresville .
