This song is about making it as a singer in Nashville .
AOL asked Aldean if the song hit home .
He replied : `` If people want to know what it 's like to be an artist and move to this town , -LSB- this song -RSB- hits the nail on the head .
There are a ton of singers in this town , and it 's all about finding what sets you apart from everybody else .
Sometimes that takes years .
You have to have thick skin .
This town will chew you up in a heartbeat ; you 've got to be able to walk into a record label and have them not really care that you 're there , half-ass listen to the stuff that you 're playing and basically tell you to go home .
I went through all that stuff . ''
Rodney Clawson and Brett Jones penned this up-tempo country rock song in which the narrator describes the Nashville music scene as being a `` crazy town . ''
Jones told the story behind the song to The Boot : `` I was on my way to Rodney 's office to write with him .
Driving across town , I was thinking what a crazy town Nashville was !
I 've been writing songs for 20 years now , and some years are good and some years are not good .
One year , you 'll make a lot of money , and then the next year you wo n't make any money .
But that 's just part of being a songwriter.I went through this hot streak in the late '90s when I had four # 1 records in a row ... and then it got cold for about three or four years .
Then it started getting hot again when I had a big hit on Montgomery Gentry , ` What Do You Think About That . '
But then it got cold again for another few years .
Now , all of a sudden , it 's getting hot again .
I just had a No. 1 hit in March with Billy Currington , '' That 's How Country Boys Roll . '
So this is what was going through my mind when I was driving over to Rodney 's to write with him that day -- that it 's a crazy town!When I got to Rodney 's office , I told him I was thinking about the ` crazy town ' idea .
He said , ` OK , that 's the one we want to write .
` We 've all had similar experiences in this music business .
Jason , myself and Rodney have all had people telling us , ` No , your songs are n't any good ; you 'll never make it . '
We 've all heard that and lived through that , but you ca n't ever give up .
When we were writing that lyric : ` To be a star , you got ta bang , bang bang , ' that 's what we were thinking -- that you come to town , you bang on a guitar , you make a lot of noise and you do n't give up .
And if you get a ` no ' when you bang on some doors , you 've just got to knock on a lot more doors until you get a ` yes .
` I 've known Jason a really long time , since he first came to Nashville .
He and I wrote at Warner Bros. together .
He 's one of my favorite people in this town .
Not only do I admire him as an artist , I admire him as a person .
He 's very tenacious .
He came to Nashville and did so many showcases and kept getting turned down .
But he never gave up.What 's really weird is , this song actually wound up sounding just like Jason 's story .
Like the lyric , ` Roll into town , step off the bus / Shake off that where-you-came-from dust / Grab your guitar , walk down the street ... ' Rodney wrote a couple of other songs for Jason , ` Amarillo Sky ' and ` Johnny Cash , ' so we were both hoping he might want to record this one .
And he almost did record it for his last album , but for some reason did n't .
But he liked it so much that he remembered it and recorded it for his last album , so it all magically worked out the way it was supposed to . ''
