The Eurythmics were vocalist Annie Lennox and instrumentalist Dave Stewart .
Both were members of The Tourists before forming Eurythmics in 1980 .
They met when Lennox was working as a waitress in Stewart 's home town of Sunderland ; they lived together for 4 years before forming Eurythmics and ending their romantic relationship while forging ahead as a duo .
Writing and recording as ex-lovers created an interesting tension in their songs.In our interview with Dave Stewart , he explains that creating a melancholy mood in his songs is something he excels at .
Says Stewart : '' ` Here Comes The Rain Again ' is kind of a perfect one where it has a mixture of things , because I 'm playing a b-minor , but then I change it to put a b-natural in , and so it kind of feels like that minor is suspended , or major .
So it 's kind of a weird course .
And of course that starts the whole song , and the whole song was about that undecided thing , like here comes depression , or here comes that downward spiral .
But then it goes , ` so talk to me like lovers do . '
It 's the wandering in and out of melancholy , a dark beauty that sort of is like the rose that 's when it 's darkest unfolding and bloodred just before the garden , dies .
And capturing that in kind of oblique statements and sentiments . ''
The Eurythmics were named after a mime performed by Emile Jacques-Dalcrose .
They had 9 UK Top 10 hits and 3 in the US , including the # 1 `` Sweet Dreams -LRB- Are Made of This -RRB- . ''
In 1987 , Stewart married Siobhan Fahey of Bananarama .
Lennox left in 1990 but the pair reunited in 1999 .
This was recorded in an old church that was converted into a studio - except the studio was n't finished yet and they brought in the orchestra anyway .
About 30 string players had to improvise by playing in corridors and even the toilet .
The song was mixed blending the orchestra on top of electronic sounds created by a sequencer and drum machine .
Instead of the conventional verse-chorus-verse , this song alternates an A section -LRB- `` Here comes the rain again ? '' -RRB-
and a B section -LRB- `` So baby talk to me ? '' -RRB-
with very little variation between repetitions - just a short instrumental bridge in the middle of the song .
This creates the feeling of monotony , as the rain keeps falling .
In The Dave Stewart Songbook , Stewart explains that he and Lennox wrote this song when they were staying at the Mayflower Hotel in New York City .
Writes Stewart : `` I 'd been out on 46th Street and bought an early Casio keyboard , about 20 inches long with very small keys .
It was an overcast day .
Annie was sitting in my room , and I was playing some little riff on the keyboard sitting on the window ledge , and I was playing these little melancholy A minor-ish chords with the B note in it .
I kept on playing this riff , and Annie was looking out the window at the slate grey sky above the New York skyline and just sang spontaneously , ` Here Comes The Rain Again . '
And that was all we needed .
you see , like with a lot of our songs , you only need to start with that one line , and that one atmosphere , that one note , or that intro melody .
And the rest of it was like a puzzle where we needed to just fill in the missing pieces . ''
The line , `` Talk to me like lovers do '' shows up in the 2007 song `` Taking Chances , '' which Stewart wrote with Kara DioGuardi .
-LRB- Read our interview with Dave Stewart . -RRB-
