This is a track from American rapper Rick Ross 's fourth studio album , Teflon Don .
Both Jay-Z and John Legend also feature on the cut .
Legend previously appeared on Ross 's 2009 tune , `` Magnificent . ''
Ross expanded on how Jay came up with his verse to MTV News : `` I was a roadie on the Blueprint 3 tour for a few dates .
It started off in St. Louis .
I was just messing with everybody , kicking it with everybody , letting Jay hear my ideas and concepts .
When you get the deluxe version of this album , we documented when I played the record .
I played the track and my first verse .
I put in the PS3 behind the stage.Played it , -LSB- Jay -RSB- listened to it , '' the Miami rapper continued .
`` We played it , backed it up , played it again .
Played it , backed it up , played it again .
Backed it up , and he spit his verse .
It 's gon na be magic for people to see Jay do his ` Rain -LSB- Man -RSB- ' when he 's rubbing his head , like he puling his rhymes outta his mind .
Just to see somebody come up with a verse that potent in less than two or three minutes ... 'cause it was just a snippet .
The beat may have played for a minute and a half and started over , '' a process Ross said was repeated a few times as Jay composed .
`` He had his 16 , an idea for the chorus .
Trey Songz , all of us standing around in awe . ''
Jay-Z recorded his verse just after his last stop on his Blueprint 3 tour in Las Vegas .
Ross recalled to MTV News : `` The funny thing is the way the record was done .
I followed him to a few Blueprint 3 Tour dates .
I was chillin ' in the back , smoked out .
As soon as he gets offstage , we was chillin ' , vibing .
His last date , which was in Vegas , he killed the show .
We left the show , went to Tao for the afterparty .
It was 30 bottles of Ace of Spades -LSB- champagne -RSB- .
He left there , went and killed the craps table , the poker table .
Then we got in the studio , and he laced me .
It was the most phenomenal verse . ''
Jay-Z 's spirituality was questioned after his video for `` On to the Next One '' was alleged to feature Satanic and Masonic imagery .
On his verse for this track , Hov shoots back the rumors .
Ross told MTV News : `` One of the words I said in my verse , it triggered something in -LSB- Jay 's -RSB- mind .
He had so many things to say about it .
The content of the record , it 's gon na answer a lot of things that 's been circulating .
It 's going to be moving . ''
