On this angry track , Rihanna gives full vent to her emotions after her then boyfriend Chris Brown brutally assaulted her in February 2009 .
In an interview for Glamour Magazine , Rihanna touched how she poured the past eight months of pent-up emotions into the album .
`` I was involved in a lot of the writing , '' Rihanna said .
`` I put everything I 've wanted to say for the past eight months into my music .
The songs are really personal .
It 's rock and roll , but it 's really hip-hop : If Lil Wayne and Kings of Leon like my album , then I 'll feel good .
I would not change anything about it .
Even if people do n't love it , I made exactly the piece of art that I wanted to make .
It 's super fearless - which is exactly how I feel right now .
I am in a really good place . ''
Rated R is Rihanna 's first album to bear a Parental Advisory label , and this track , which contains plenty of cuss words is one reason why it earned the sticker .
This was released as the third international single , and the fourth US single from Rihanna 's fourth album , Rated R .
This Dream-and-Stewart produced track features former Guns 'n' Roses axeman Slash on guitar .
Tricky Stewart previously collaborated with Rihanna on her international hit Umbrella .
He told Rap-Up .
com that the record is `` a superstar taking a step in a totally different direction .
This album is different than her past works . ''
Stewart elaborated , `` This is Rihanna coming into her own and going from being a girl that has been singing big , huge hit records , and the artist is awake and alive and moving on this project .
She knows exactly what she wants to say , she knows how she wants to feel .
It was an amazing experience working with her and just really getting into her headspace of what she wanted to do . ''
Rihanna first performed the song live on the ninth season of American Idol .
At one point she picked up a Flying V electric guitar with her signature metallic `` R '' symbol on it , although her guitar skills seemed limited .
The song 's music video has Rihanna in rocking mode backed by a band that features Travis Barker on drums .
Slash does n't appear in the clip , but Rihanna pays homage to him at one stage donning his trademark top hat , leather jacket , dark glasses and toothpick .
The former Guns 'N' Roses axman told MTV News : `` I was supposed to actually be in that video .
I played on the song , and they called me up to ask me to play in the video , but my record was just coming out , and I was sort of worn thin .
She was really sweet .
She sent me this pleading text to come do the video , but I could n't make it work .
I told her that me not being in the video was n't going to make or break it .
`` Slash added that he approved of Rihanna 's depiction of him in the clip : `` The video is way better with her being me than with me being me , '' he said .
`` All things considered , it brings an element of sexuality to it that I probably would n't have been capable of .
I think it 's hot , and I sent her a text this morning telling her it was definitely hotter with her doing it than with me doing it .
Everything works out the way it 's supposed to . ''
