This is the first single from alternative metal band Stone Sour 's third album Audio Secrecy .
It was released on July 6 , 2010 .
Taylor explained to Artist Direct why this was released as the album 's lead single : `` That song really showed its face in the studio .
It became a whole different monster when we recorded it , which really made me extremely happy because of the subject matter .
The song lyrically is about my new wife and how passionate I am about her .
It 's a very positive song .
It 's got that urgency about it that she brings out of me .
I love how everything came together , and it 's almost like we did n't even realize we had that song .
When we were demoing it , practicing it and watching it take shape , we did n't realize what we had .
We went in the studio , recorded it and it became a wholly different monster .
It has taken off .
I 'm just really happy that song has risen to where I wanted it to be musically because it 's such a special and important song to me . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Paul R. Brown and premiered on July 27 , 2010 .
It uses the album version of the song , not the short radio edit .
Taylor told Spin magazine about the clip : `` It 's a video we shot with -LSB- director -RSB- Paul Brown -LRB- Slipknot , Korn -RRB- and tried to tie in the same concepts as the artwork for the album .
The concept is that things are n't necessarily what they seem , and any moment the tide can change .
I wanted to make something that people were going to talk about . ''
Frontman Corey Taylor admitted to The Pulse of Radio that it took him a while to warm up to `` Haunt Me '' during the recording of Audio Secrecy .
`` It was one of those songs that I did n't really feel until it was finished , '' he said .
`` I enjoyed the lyrics but I was n't sure about the music .
I 'd come in and I 'd sang it , and I put my heart into it because the lyrics are about my wife and how I feel about my wife , and then I left .
And I came back and they -LRB- the band -RRB- had just made it incredible .
Now I ca n't get it out of my head . ''
Taylor told Kerrang ! ''
` Say You 'll Haunt Me ' is a song about my -LRB- new -RRB- wife and how I feel about her .
It 's about the crazy passion I have for her .
She 's probably the best person I 've ever met . ''
