This multi-layered number is the title track of Contemporary Christian singer-songwriter Steven Curtis Chapman 's seventeenth studio album .
Many of the songs from the record were inspired by the tragic death of his daughter , Maria Sue Chunxi Chapman .
Christianity Today magazine asked Chapman how he decided on the album title .
He replied : `` We were in China last May when the earthquake hit -LSB- the 2008 Sichuan quake that killed 70,000 -RSB- , though we were sitting in the Shanghai airport when it happened , so we did n't feel it .
But when we came home , we heard about all the devastation .
And then two weeks later , our earthquake hit -LSB- when Maria was killed -RSB- .
And that was a real connection for me , in a way , to pray .
In a lot of ways it was one of the ways we survived .
When I turned everything inward , with the pain , questions , and devastation in our own family , I felt like I was going to cave in .
But when I could pray for other people , when I could say , ` God , these people are feeling the same thing .
Please give them the comfort that we are finding in your promises and the fact that we 're going to see our little girl again .
We know that hope .
These people do n't ; they 're in a more desperate place than we are , because they do n't know .
Let us share that with them . '
As I thought of that , I had this desire to go back to China -- which we did this summer -- to the earthquake zone and sing over these people the hope that has sustained us .
I was connecting our day of loss and destruction to theirs and saying , ` You know , today the world went wrong .
But out of this , if I really believe God 's Word and God 's promises , God will bring beauty out of these ashes .
And this is our hope .
This is our comfort . '
And as I wrote that song -LSB- the title track -RSB- , it just captured the heart of what I would say in this album .
That this is the promise , God .
Beauty will rise out of this .
I 'm not going to pretend to know what that 's going to look like .
There 's going to be a lot of it that we wo n't even see until heaven .
But this is what I know to be true . ''
