Rascal Flatts ' eighth album takes its title from this song , which lead vocalist Gary LeVox penned with sometime writing partners Wendell Mobley and Neil Thrasher .
He explained the name represents the different circumstances that the trio found themselves in .
`` It was a great title , '' he said .
`` Everything in our career has changed .
We switched record labels .
Last year , we switched management companies .
A lot of things have changed in the last 10 years .
We thought it summed up everything . ''
LeVox , Thrasher and Mobley wrote the song in the fall of 2010 and guitarist Joe Don Rooney told Billboard magazine how when LeVox played it for him and Jay DeMarcus , it resonated strongly because of the turbulent year the trio had experienced .
`` We had all this change going on through the year 2010 with Lyric Street Records shutting their doors and Big Machine Records picking us up , which was a godsend .
And we parted ways with management , '' he said .
`` So we were jumping in bed with a new manager and through all this new stuff going on , this song found us .
That song really set up how this album came to be . ''
The song 's music video stars Charles Esten -LRB- who plays Deacon Claybourne in the hit drama series Nashville -RRB- as a man on a downward spiral , which is deeply affecting his relationship with his wife and daughter .
Rascal Flatts ' Gary LeVox portrays his neighborhood bartender .
`` This video treatment best captures the emotion and depth of the lyrics , '' said the band 's Jay DeMarcus .
`` It tells the story of a man on the brink of despair , who is ultimately saved by the ones around him , who love him the most .
In that , he finds the strength to forgive himself .
`` Charles Esten , is a friend of the band in real life .
`` I met him before he did the show through a mutual friend in Los Angeles named Mark , '' said Jay DeMarcus .
`` Mark called me up and said , ' I got a really great guy coming out there to be on Nashville and he does n't really know anybody , does n't have a whole lot of friends there , ' so I reached out to him and we started talking and I just immediately found out what an incredible human being he is and what a great man he is . ''
LeVox told Billboard magazine this ballad was inspired by the baptism of Neil Thrasher 's daughter : `` Neil was telling me about his daughter .
When they were on vacation , she said , ` Dad , I want to be baptized , ' so they found a minister .
It was a sunset baptismal out in the ocean , '' he recalled .
`` When he brought the song to me , he already had the first half of the verse : ' I came up out of the water , raised my hands up to the Father , gave it all to him that day , felt a new wind kiss my face . '
`` The three songwriters built the song from there , with some heavenly assistance .
`` We really felt like we had something magical on that , '' said LeVox .
`` The three of us just held the pen and God kind of wrote the whole thing .
It talks about how we all screw up and make mistakes and we can all change , but you have to be man enough or woman enough to say , ` Hey , I 'm sorry . '
Because you ca n't live your life with regret .
It 's time to change and sometimes the hardest thing in life is just forgiving yourself . ''
The song has made an impact on a number of people , including a guy who was contemplating suicide .
He later emailed the group to testify how the song changed him .
`` He was driving down the road , and pulled over to the side of the road , '' LeVox told Billboard magazine .
`` He knew at that moment , after listening to the song , he was going to change for the better .
The power of a song - to have that impact on someone that is thinking about ending their own life is really unbelievable , it truly is . ''
