This disorienting ode to an out-of-control girl was premiered by BBC Radio 1 's Zane Lowe .
Frontman Ezra Koenig told the DJ : `` We worked on it for a long time .
We went out to LA to co-produce it with Ariel -LSB- Rechtshaid -RSB- ... It 's definitely one of our craziest songs . ''
Koenig explained the song 's meaning to NME : `` The narrator 's voice is critical : ` You 're f -- ing around doing all this s -- t. ' But then they have their own doubts : ' I live my life in self-defence .
I love the past because I hate suspense . '
And that felt very true of a certain type of person - which , sometimes , I think is me -- who is ultimately a coward and maybe secretly envious of people who really do n't give a f -- . ''
This won Independent Track Of The Year at the 2013 AIM Independent Music Awards .
The titular vixen 's name is presumably a play on words on ` dying young ' and possibly also a reference to the Diane Young Anti-Aging Salon on E 79th street in Manhattan .
The Primo Khan-directed video is set at a Last Supper-esque dinner party that goes awry .
As well as the Vampire Weekend quartet , the guest list also includes Santigold , Dirty Projectors frontman Dave Longstreth , Walkmen frontman Hamilton Leithauser , Sky Ferreira , and Chromeo 's David Macklovitch and Patrick Gemayel .
The latter pair are the duo who get into a shouting match with drummer Chris Tomson .
Vampire Weekend had little love for the song 's demo , but producer Ariel Rechtshaid saw some potential .
He recalled to The Guardian : `` We had been working on beautiful down-tempo songs and I felt that the record was missing some high-energy stuff .
I 'd heard the demo of ` Diane Young ' but they 'd dismissed it as a boring rockabilly song , so I asked to have a go at it . ''
`` Rostam and I tag-team : we each take the files and work on them for a while , '' he added .
`` The vocal processing in the chorus was something that I did and played for them and they were completely weirded out by it , and so was I. I like to get freaked out and sit with it for a while , and if it does n't feel totally wrong I would rather take a chance on it than not . ''
