`` Miss Murder '' is about lead singer Davey Havok and his internal struggle with fame and adoration .
One side of him fears the fall from grace that is sure to come and yet another part wishes to walk away from it all .
More lyric interpretation : `` With just a look , they shook and heavens bowed before him '' - This could be about God , and how he instills fear and respect everywhere he looks .
`` The stars that pierced the sky , he left them all behind .
We 're left to wonder why he left us all behind ! ''
- God abandoned the people and the planets .
`` Dreams of his crash wo n't pass or how they all adored him '' - This could be God regretting how he left everybody behind , because now they have forgotten him .
He 's also missing the adoration the people had for him .
`` What 's the hook , the twist within this verbose mystery ?
I would gladly bet my life upon it .
That the ghost you love , your ray of light will fizzle out without hope . ''
- This may be telling the listener that God will just fizzle out and die without the hope and belief that they once held for him .
`` We 're the empty set just floating through , wrapped in skin , ever searching for what we were promised .
Reaching for the golden ring we never let go , who would ever let us put our filthy hands upon it . ''
- A golden ring could refer to the golden halo an angel receives upon getting to heaven .
-LRB- thanks , Ryan - Columbus , OH -RRB- Some lyric interpretation : `` Hey Miss Murder can I make beauty stay if I take my life ? ''
- The song opens with this line which also doubles as the chorus .
This is an inner dialog where he is trying to broker a deal with `` Miss Murder , '' which is a representation of the reaper .
He is asking Miss Murder to allow his persona to remain immortalized when his time comes to face her .
In exchange for everlasting grace he will surrender his life to her willingly .
`` With just a look they shook , And heavens bowed before him .
Simply a look can break your heart . ''
- This part describes his position as an adored idol in the first person perspective .
Not only is the crowd amazed by him , he is also amazed by them .
Its all about how the crowd reacts to him when he first appears on stage creating a frenzy of excited cheers filling the room and his heart with an energy that overwhelms him .
The feeling of thousands of fans calling his name uplifts him and he believes he can do anything .
`` The stars that pierce the sky , he left them all behind .
We 're left to wonder why he left us all behind . ''
- This part reverts to the point of view of the fans in the third person .
Davey imagines the effect of his sudden suicide has on his fans just when the band is reaching new heights in fame and success .
He imagines a great feeling of loss and grasps on to it .
`` Dreams of his crash wo n't pass , oh , how they all adored him beauty will last when spiraled down . ''
- This is now a third person perspective on himself .
He is entertaining himself with thoughts of being immortalized in the minds of his fans .
Its also exactly what he bargained for with Miss Murder .
He is getting more excited about the prospect of dying while his star is shining brightly .
`` The stars that mystified he left them all behind , and how his children cry , he left us all behind . ''
- Again we are back with the fans but this time he carries a more self important view of himself as he is quite delighted with how it could all work out .
He will be able to rest secure in the knowledge that he will never be forgotten .
`` What 's the hook , the twist , within this verbose mystery ?
I would gladly bet my life upon it that the ghost you love , your ray of light will fizzle out without hope we 're the empty set , just flowing through , wrapped in skin ever searching for what we were promised reaching for that golden ring we 'd never let go but who would ever let us put our filthy hands upon it ? ''
- Snap !
Back to reality this time Davey is speaking directly to the listener , no more nihilistic fantasies .
He comes to grips with the fact that achieving immortality is impossible and that should he carry through with his plan he 's going to get forgotten about anyway .
Either way he is resigned to the fact that some day his shining star will fade and his fame , his youth and his prospects will go along with it .
He goes on to say that we are all devoid of completion and spend our lives chasing some dream or goal that 's going to fulfill us .
He sees this as a futile cause as fulfillment always seems just out of reach or just around the next corner .
But what else is there for him or anybody else but to keep trying .
-LRB- thanks , Chris - Gold Coast , Australia , for above 2 -RRB- This was used as the closing song in the 2009 MTV movie My Super Psycho Sweet 16 .
-LRB- thanks , charlie - las vegas , NV -RRB-
