This 78 second , steamy album interlude finds Rihanna getting downright filthy as she expresses her desire to have spontaneous sex .
In case you have n't noticed the cake in question is not one you stick candles on , but a metaphor for a certain region of the female anatomy .
The song was helmed by The-Dream together with Kosine and Tuo , who are the production / writing team known collectively as Da Internz .
The-Dream recalled to Sway on MTV 's RapFix Live getting the original call from Rihanna about the Chris Brown featuring remix while driving in Miami .
`` I think I 'm gon na put Chris on it , '' he recalled the Bajan singer saying to him over the phone .
`` I do n't know which Chris you talkin ' about , -LSB- but -RSB- OK , cool , whatever you say , '' was The-Dream 's response.The-Dream had to come to grips with the situation once he came to realisation that the Chris she was collaborating with was the one who assaulted Rihanna three years previously .
`` She 's pretty smart too .
The same questions that went through my mind , and I 'm an artist also , had to have gone through hers , '' he told RapFix Live .
`` When she raised the question to me , I know she 's not crazy .
So my thought was you 've been thinking about this , you 've already thought it out , so evidently you know what reaction you gon na get . ''
The remix marks the first collaboration from the two singers since their collaboration on the remix to Rihanna 's 2007 single `` Umbrella '' .
Rihanna admitted that some of her filthiest lyrics on Talk That Talk were written while she was without a man .
Speaking to The Sun she said that her feelings of frustration inspired her sauciest songs .
RiRi said : `` My last album Talk That Talk was true to where my head was at that moment , like all my albums .
I was having a lot of naughty thoughts - because I was n't getting any action .
That came out in the music . ''
The Bajan singer is not the first pop artist to indulge in some birthday-themed naughtiness , though Jeremih was more upfront with the title of his 2009 hit `` Birthday Sex . ''
A full length version of the song was released in 2012 featuring Chris Brown .
The R&B singer-songwriter contributed two verses ; one where he 's singing and another where he 's rapping .
It was the first time that Rihanna had worked with her former boyfriend since he beat her up in the street after a pre-Grammys party three years previously .
The remix was recorded and fine-tuned quickly , so it could be debuted on February 20 , 2012 , Rihanna 's 24th birthday .
`` Within like the last week-and-a-half -LSB- it was recorded -RSB- , '' the-Dream disclosed to The Boombox .
`` It has n't been that long .
It 's quick .
We had just finished it that day on her birthday in London .
Rihanna spoke to Ryan Seacrest on his US radio station KIIS FM about why she collaborated with Chris Brown on the song 's remix : `` I reached out to him about doing ` Birthday Cake ' because that 's the only person that really made sense to do the record , '' she said .
The singer added : `` I thought about rappers , and I 've done that so many times , and the hottest R&B artist out right now is Chris Brown .
So I wanted him on the track .
Just as a musician , despite everything else , that was going to be the person . ''
