The B-side to this single is a cover of Liverpudlian singer Cilla Black 's song , `` Work Is a Four Letter Word . ''
Guitarist , Johnny Marr , detested this cover so much that he quit the band soon after recording it .
Marr recalled to Record Collector magazine in 1992 : '' ` Work Is A Four Letter Word ' I hated .
That was the last straw , really .
I did n't form a group to perform Cilla Black songs .
That was it , really .
I made a decision that I was going to get away on holiday .
The only place I could think of was L.A. L.A. was the only place I knew where there 'd be sunshine , so off I went .
I never saw Morrissey again . ''
The single artwork is an image of the British dramatist , Shelagh Delaney , who wrote the play , A Taste of Honey - a work which Morrissey references in multiple Smiths songs , including `` Hand in Glove '' and `` Reel Around the Fountain . ''
This song plays over the opening credits of the 2001 episode of The Drew Carey Show , `` Drew 's In A Coma , '' in which Drew is left comatose after a car accident .
This was the first single to be released from The Smiths ' final studio album , Strangeways , Here We Come .
Both Morrissey and Marr have stated that this is their favorite Smiths album .
It is named after Manchester 's notorious prison , Strangeways - whose walls are rumored to be 16 feet thick !
In 1987 , Morrissey told Q magazine : `` I feel at the moment that almost anything absurd can happen .
And if I ended up in Strangeways , I would n't be at all surprised . ''
In this song , it is unclear if The Smiths ' front man , Morrissey , is truly distraught about the condition of his girlfriend , or if he is being sarcastic .
Morrissey 's sexuality has been a matter of conjecture for many years , so it is even debatable whether the `` girlfriend '' referred to in this song is his own .
Canadian author Douglas Coupland 's 1998 novel , Girlfriend In A Coma , took its title from this song .
The official video was directed by Tim Broad and features Morrissey performing alone alongside footage from the 1964 film , The Leather Boys , starring Rita Tushingham .
Johnny Marr and Morrissey were both fans of Bob and Marcia 's 1970 reggae tune `` Young , Gifted And Black . ''
Marr told The Observer in 2013 : `` We bonded over a lot of records , but we both loved that song in the same way at the same time .
And that 's very likely to be the thing that inspired the music for ` Girlfriend in a Coma . ' ''
