This is the first single from Lil Wayne 's ninth studio album , Tha Carter IV .
It premiered via Funkmaster Flex on December 14 , 2010 .
The song was produced by Bangladesh , who helmed Wayne 's 2008 smash `` A Milli , '' and revolves around a tweaked vocal sample culled from Harry Belfonte 's 1956 calypso classic `` Day-O -LRB- The Banana Boat Song -RRB- . ''
Bangladesh told MTV News how he ended up reuniting with Lil Wayne : `` It 's kind of similar -LSB- to how we worked together for ' A Milli ' -RSB- , '' said the Atlanta-based producer .
`` I had ' A Milli , ' knowing that the actual track was actually important .
I had opportunities to sell it , but until I got it to Wayne at that time , who I wanted to get it to , I could n't sell it to anybody else .
This time , I knew this beat was great like that , too .
And I had n't really thought of sending it to him .
I sent it to Gee Roberson , and he works closely with Wayne and played it for him .
That 's how it happened , really . ''
The song finds Weezy spitting about his charisma , his Young Money cohorts , and his sexual conquests .
In his first radio interview after being released from prison Wayne discussed the joint on the Sirius channel Shade 45 .
He told fill-in hosts DJ Drama and marketing guru Karen Civil : `` 6 ' 7 is a monster , actually .
Hopefully , it shows people where I 'm at lyrically .
Better than everybody .
It 's `` A Milli '' on human growth hormones .
It 's a very tall record . ''
Wayne explained his decision to put new Young Money signee Cory Gunz on the third verse .
`` You know , I put Nicki on the right songs , I put Drake on the right songs ; I picked the right song , '' he told MTV News .
`` It makes people pay attention because I know that people were waiting to see what I 'll say on my first record , my first Lil Wayne record -LSB- since getting out of prison -RSB- .
'Cause , of course , I 've done a bunch of features , and I 'm quite sure whoever I did a feature for -LSB- before -RSB- , as soon as I came home they put it out 'cause it got Wayne on here .
` He just came home , let 's put it out .
` So , I knew people were going to look at my first record like , ' I want to know what he 's talking about on his first record . '
And , I gave you the jewel at the end .
It 's like I 'm forcing it on you , you got to hear this .
It made everybody who did n't know Cory Gunz -LSB- say -RSB- , ` Who is that ? ' ''
Cory Gunz recalled the recording of his verse to MTV News : `` We went straight to the studio , and Tunes -LSB- told me -RSB- , ' I have something for you to hear , ' and it went from there . ''
-LSB- Wayne said -RSB- , ` We gon ' have to attack this . '
As soon as I heard it , it was , like , instant .
Some beats you hear -LSB- or -RSB- certain songs you hear in a party ... and they hit you in a certain kind of way , and that 's kinda what the beat did .
So we sat , and the record is now getting an amazing response . ''
An eighth grade teacher at the Charter Schools of Boynton Beach , Florida was suspended after distributing to pupils this song as homework without censoring its explicit language and themes .
`` The lesson was for students to learn to identify literary devices , '' explained the headmaster .
`` The teacher had already introduced Edgar Allen Poe and Shakespeare .
Students were having difficulty grasping the concepts of literary devices such as : pun , simile , metaphor , so the teacher used colloquial material .
This material did not meet the school 's standards and was not approved . ''
Bangladesh originally earmarked the beat for T.I. .
He told Bet.com : `` I was actually sending the beat to Gee -LSB- Roberson , Atlantic Records executive -RSB- for T.I. .
I mean , not that I think T.I. would sound good on the beat , they were just looking for a single and somebody said , ` Man , send that to Gee ; T.I. needs something . '
`` However , Roberson , who co-manages Lil Wayne , saw the beat as potential Carter IV material , despite Bangladesh having fallen out with Weezy 's label over money he claimed was owed him .
`` I already dealt with T.I. , I know how T.I. is .
I knew he would n't really be rocking this beat right there , so I sent it anyway , '' Bangladesh said .
`` And Gee just hit back talking about Wayne : ` Man , Wayne 'll kill this , Wayne 'll kill this , ' so I had to really see if I wanted to do it or not , but they 've been communicating , they 've been reaching out . ''
The song also serves as an introduction to a new Young Money artist , Bronx-based MC Cory Gunz , who has a cameo on the final third verse .
Corey is the son of rapper Peter Gunz , who together with Lord Tariq had a hit single in 1997 with `` Deja Vu -LRB- Uptown Baby -RRB- . ''
Gunz told MTV News that Weezy allowed him creative freedom to come up with his own rhymes : `` Honestly , -LSB- Wayne -RSB- just told me to be me on the record , '' he said .
`` He did n't tell me any specific way to write or anything to do , and that 's what I really appreciate . ''
So , how tall is Lil Wayne ?
According to most sources , the rapper is 5ft 6 inches .
Hype Williams directed the song 's music video , which features Coret Gunz , his father Peter Gunz and other members of the Young Money Crew .
Over 40 scenes were shot and Wayne changed outfits upwards of 20 times.The clip was inspired by Christopher Nolan 's Inception movie , a film Wayne was `` super interested '' in because of its complexity .
However , the rapper explained to MTV News that Hype Williams wanted to focus on Weezy 's clever lyrics .
`` When I got with him he was like , ` It 's time for you to shoot a video , ' '' Wayne recalled Hype telling him . '' '
I like the little Inception thing , but if I 'm going to shoot a video with you , I really want to capitalize on your bars to make people get the stuff you 're saying .
You shoot great videos , do n't get me wrong .
But sometimes people may think you shoot a video that makes it seem like you go for looks , instead of actually getting these people to understand what you 're talking about .
You are considered one of the best , and you have to show them why , ' '' Bangladesh opted to trade this song 's beat to Wayne for a collaboration on his own artist album .
However , when it never materialized , he voiced his frustration with Cash Money , accusing the label of fleecing him again .
`` Every time we come up with a solution , it never gets taken care of , '' the frustrated beatsmith said .
`` I just ca n't keep really giving them music . ''
