In an interview with VH1 , lead singer Pat Monahan revealed that he wrote this song about the death of his mother .
Train released their first album in 1998 , and were touring that year when Monahan 's mother was dying of lung cancer - she was a heavy smoker .
This was before the widespread use of cell phones , and Monahan made many stops to pay phones on the tour to speak with his mom during this difficult time .
In December of that year , his mother died , and in early 1999 Train was working on their next album when their record company started pressuring them for a hit .
Monahan returned to his childhood home in Pennsylvania , and woke one morning with the words `` back in the atmosphere '' in his head .
Beginning a time of healing , he started to compose the song .
Said Monahan : `` Loss of the most important person in my life was heavy on my mind , and the thought of ` what if no one ever really leaves ?
What if she 's here but different .
The idea was , she 's back here in the atmosphere .
`` He recorded a demo of the song and played it a week later for Donnie Ienner , who was president of their record company , Columbia .
While Monahan was n't sure how the song would go over , Ienner loved it and told him it was his Grammy song .
He was right : It won Grammys for Best Rock Song and Best Instrumental Arrangement With Accompanying Vocalist .
Ienner had Train record the song quickly so they could put it on the album and use it as the title track .
Monahan said of this song : '' `` It was an obvious connection between me and my mother .
` Drops of Jupiter ' was as much about me being on a voyage and trying to find out who I am .
The best thing we can do about loss of love is find ourselves through it . ''
It was a few years before Monahan revealed the story behind this song , and the common interpretation is that it was about a woman who leaves her man to find out if they belong together .
Monahan would give vague answers when asked about the song , at one point saying : `` This is a woman who 's strong and has to find out who she is and a man willing to let her do that . ''
Monahan has a permanent scar on his chin , which could explain the line , `` One without a permanent scar . ''
Train performed an updated version of this song at the 2002 Grammy awards , which included a cello prelude by Denise Djokic and a full orchestra .
When Train won the award for Best Rock Song , Monahan thanked his mother .
On December 25 , 2009 Two and a Half Men actor Charlie Sheen was arrested on charges of domestic violence against his wife Brooke Mueller .
According to Us Magazine their Christmas Day brawl was caused by this song .
Sheen allegedly told police that he and his daughter share a love for Drops of Jupiter , which angered Mueller .
She lashed out , `` You have a song -LSB- that -RSB- you share with your daughter , but not one with me ? ''
which ignited the fight .
Patrick Monahan responded to the news on Twitter , `` I 'm pretty sure that Drops of Jupiter is a positive part of Charlie Sheen and his daughter 's relationship .
Just gon na look at it that way . ''
The string section was arranged by Paul Buckmaster , who has done arrangements for Elton John , David Bowie , and The Rolling Stones .
Train was in danger of becoming a one-hit-wonder before they released this .
Their first hit , `` Meet Virginia , '' was released 2 years earlier .
This is the type of song which lends itself to personal interpretation , and was most often considered to be about a former lover , a young woman or just someone the writer knew who went on a voyage of self-discovery - not necessarily by traveling to distant lands.When they suffer personal tragedy , many people feel a closeness to their departed loved one .
This is not a song about reincarnation as such , but about the idea that no one ever really leaves us .
In spite of the different subject matter , it bears a striking resemblance to the Cat Stevens composition `` On The Road To Find Out . ''
Whatever , it obviously struck a chord with many people , and deservedly spent over a year on the Billboard Hot 100 .
Monahan said of the song : `` It was an obvious connection between me and my mother .
` Jrops of Jupiter ' was as much about me being on a voyage and trying to find out who I am .
The best thing we can do about loss of love is find ourselves through it . ''
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB- Brendan O'Brien produced this track .
He has also worked with Pearl Jam and The Stone Temple Pilots .
He became interested in the band when he heard their cover of `` Ramble On '' on the radio .
This ascended to the top 10 of the Adult Contemporary chart in its 49th week , marking the longest climb to the top 10 on that tally by any act .
The song returned to the UK singles chart in April 2012 after being performed by audtionee Phil Poole on The Voice .
