Matt Redman -LRB- born February 14 , 1974 -RRB- is an English Christian worship leader and songwriter .
Such songs of his as `` Heart Of Worship , '' `` Let Everything That Has Breath , '' `` Undignified , '' `` Better Is One Day '' and `` Blessed Be Your Name '' are sung in churches throughout the world - the latter tune won the 2005 Dove award for Worship Song of the Year .
Additionally many Contemporary Christian music artists including Michael W. Smith , Rebecca St. James and The David Crowder Band have covered his tunes .
Redman told the story of the song in an interview with Christianity Today : '' ` Holy ' is an attempt to paint a big picture of God , focusing on how worthy he is .
My friend Jonas Myrin initiated this song .
He 's a Swedish guy with a great melodic sensibility and a pretty amazing grasp on the poetry of the English language , considering it 's his second language !
But most of all he has a big heart for worshipping God .
On the day we wrote , this we were in a little English chapel near my house , composing all day .
Jason and I had both ducked out for an hour or so to call our families and check in on home .
We assumed Jonas was also taking a break , but arriving back at the chapel , he was still at the piano , and singing out the foundation of something that seemed so special .
We were glad to join him in helping shape and develop the song .
But it 's one of those songs where the moment I heard those opening bars , I had a strong sense that were being entrusted with something special .
As it turns out I think this song became the centerpiece of the whole album in many ways .
There was a wonderful response when we led it at the recording . ''
This song is a track from his eighth album 10,000 Reasons , which he co-wrote with several of his friends .
He then recorded the songs live in Atlanta , leading worship for over 1,000 worship leaders during LIFT : A Worship Leader Collective , put on by Passion City Church and sixstepsrecords on February 18 and 19 , 2011 .
10,000 Reasons sold nearly 7,000 units its first week in the US , almost doubling his previous album release We Shall Not Be Shaken .
The album entered the Billboard 200 at # 66 , his biggest debut to date .
