The first single from British singer Leona Lewis 's third album finds her taking a more dance pop route than on her previous material .
She said , `` I 'm excited for people to see a different side to my music .
I 'm a fan of so many different genres and styles .
For me this song has all the great ingredients of a summer anthem . ''
The song got its first play on Scott Mills ' Radio One show on July 15 , 2011 before being released on September 4 , 2011 .
Despite being credited as a songwriter on `` Collide , '' Avicii was upset at the song 's borrowing from his instrumental tune `` Penguin , '' which was due to be released with vocals under the name `` Fade Into Darkness . ''
The Swedish DJ , who also records under the name of Tim Berg , tweeted his dismay : `` To answer everyone , the first time I heard Leona Lewis ` Collide ' was today .
I did n't produce it and neither me or my manager could approve it .
I 'm just upset for someone taking credit of our idea before I had a chance to release it ... And for the time and effort that has been put into this by my manager and label .
`` Lewis responded to his plagiarism accusations by denying Berg 's claims .
She tweeted : `` With regards to my song , avicii was aware & agreeing publishing splits for himself and his manager .
When avicii sent his track out to have a song written over it I totally fell in love with this version and i think he 's super talented .
`` Lewis and DJ Avicii eventually reached an agreement and the single was released as a collaboration under both artists ' names .
This was one of several songs Rowe wrote for Lewis .
She told Digital Spy about her songwriting process : `` With Leona , first we hung out and got to know each other .
I feel that it 's very important that we are comfortable and friends , because writing has to be one of the most vulnerable things that you can do .
You have to just pour your soul out and have no ego .
Once we got in the studio , we started with Jonas Quant and wrote a couple of songs .
She was completely open about her life , how she was feeling , where she was right then - she 'd just had a birthday the day before we started .
It was a perfect time for her in her life .
For me , when I turned 25 , that 's when I really became a woman and it 's just a great age - you really know who you are . ''
The song was written by New York based singer/songwriter Autumn Rowe and French hitmaker , Sandy Vee , who previously teamed together for American pop dance singer Alexis Jordan 's singles `` Good Girl '' and `` Hush Hush . ''
Autumn Rowe told Digital Spy how she was inspired by the prospect of journeying with Sweden with Lewis when penning this song .
Said the New York songwriter : `` I was working with her -LSB- Lewis -RSB- and we were just about to go to Sweden .
I had like three days in New York and I was going to go see her and I wrote the song then .
I was inspired by the travelling and everything we 've done .
I 'd never been to Sweden ; that 's where the line ` When you 're in ... ' -LSB- came from -RSB- .
On that trip I was going to Sweden , Denmark , London and Miami . ''
