This toe-tapping love song finds Shelton singing about falling for a girl in the bar and suggesting that they get to know each other over a few drinks .
It was released as the third single from Red River Blue on January 9 , 2012 .
Shelton said re the recording of this tune : `` It got right down to the wire .
It was the last song we ended up cutting for the album and ironically , it 's one of my top three or four favorites on the record .
It 's a sexy song that I have n't heard anything quite like . ''
Songwriting credits here go to Jon Randall , Jessi Alexander and Rodney Clawson .
Here 's some more info about the trio : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Dallas-born singer-songwriter Jon Randall has recorded several country albums under his own name as well as co-writing tracks for such artists as Dierks Bentley , Reba McEntire and Lonestar .
He is probably best known for co-penning with Bill Anderson Brad Paisley 's duet with Alison Krauss , `` Whiskey Lullaby . ''
-LRB- 2 -RRB- Jackson , Tennessee-born country music singer-songwriter Jessi Alexander launched her own recording career with the album , Honeysuckle Sweet in 2004 .
Two of the tracks from the record charted on the Country chart .
Since then she has concentrated on a songwriting career and Patty Loveless , Trisha Yearwood and Reba McEntire have all cut her tunes .
Alexander also found success on the pop chart when she co-penned Miley Cyrus 's Hot 100 hit , `` The Climb . ''
-LRB- 3 -RRB- Raised on a farm in Gruver , Texas , Rodney Clawson began visiting Nashville in the mid - '90s , before moving there in 2005 .
He has since carved out a successful career as a songwriter and his resume includes Luke Bryan 's `` Drunk On You , '' Jason Aldean 's `` Crazy Town '' and George Strait 's `` I Saw God Today , '' which won the 2008 CMA Single of the Year .
Clawson also dipped his toe into rockier waters in 2011 when he co-penned Canadian rock act Nickelback 's track , `` Lullaby . ''
The song became Shelton 's sixth consecutive chart-topping hit when it reached # 1 on Country Songs .
It was also Shelton 's 11th tune to reach the top spot in total and coincidentally , the single 's arrival at the summit happened 11 years to the date of his first appearance on the chart , when `` Austin '' debuted .
