The band got the idea for this song when they were traveling in Japan in the early '70s .
War drummer Harold Brown told us : `` We 're all connected by language , and by our food , and by our culture .
Most racists do n't know why they 're racist .
But you pick them up and take them over and drop them in a country , like India or Pakistan , guess what ?
` Why ca n't we be friends ? '
Because all of a sudden you find out we 're more alike inside than we are on the outside .
We started realizing that that 's really important .
You travel all over the world , you ca n't speak a lot of their language .
But one thing they do know , they know your body language , how you may react . ''
This song makes a statement about the absurdity of judging others based on our differences .
War started out in the early '60s as a black band called The Creators , and they managed to break down barriers , becoming the first black band to be booked on the Sunset Strip in Los Angeles .
As they evolved into War and went through member changes over the years , the band integrated , often playing with white musicians like Eric Burdon , who was their lead singer for 2 albums .
Brown explains his philosophy : `` I like exemplary people around me .
I do n't judge you by your name , your color , or your money .
I judge you by whether or not you 're an exemplary person .
Because if I know you 're an exemplary person , and I want you to move this equipment from here to there , or you 're building a house or you 're shining shoes or stuff , then I know you 're gon na do it the best you know how .
That 's the bottom line .
See , that 's where people keep falling off of America here , because we get inferior people in positions they have no business being in . ''
Brown : `` We Are Righteous , that 's what War stood for .
It was trying to bring everybody together through our music . ''
Four of the 5 original surviving members of War formed the Lowrider Band after losing the name in the mid-1990s to Far Out Productions -LRB- producer and songwriter Jerry Goldstein -RRB- , who allows original keyboardist Lonnie Jordan to use the name .
Brown harbors no ill will toward Jordan , and feels that , `` Ultimately , natural justice will prevail . ''
-LRB- Thanks to Harold Brown for speaking with us about this song .
Learn more about the Lowrider Band at lowriderband.com . -RRB-
The original video for this song features a cast of multi-racial , multi-occupational , multi-cultural earthlings .
One segment features a man parachuting in on a couple celebrating their love .
He brings them a bottle of wine and pours it into their glasses .
Look closely at the woman 's ring .
It is not on her left hand , she is holding the glass with her right hand .
The man might be married , as his ring is on his wedding ring finger on his left hand , but it is not clear if he is married to the woman or if the woman is married at all .
-LRB- thanks , em - los angeles , CA -RRB- Each verse was sung by a different member of the band , with Brown singing the first .
The line , `` I may not speak right , but I know what I 'm talking about , '' is harmonica player Lee Oskar , who is from Denmark and was just learning how to speak English .
War recorded this at Crystal Studios in Hollywood , where artists like Stevie Wonder and The Fabulous Thunderbirds would also record .
In 2005 , XM Satellite Radio used this in commercials to promote their Major League Baseball broadcasts .
The idea was that fans of different teams could still get along as long as they could listen to the games anywhere an XM radio could be found .
Smash Mouth covered this on their first CD , Fush Yu Mang .
