This track is about a woman who , despite facing adversity , is n't finished .
It was released as the first single by R&B singer Keyshia Cole from her fourth studio album Calling All Hearts .
The song features serial collaborator Nicki Minaj and was released on October 15 , 2010 .
Cole told MTV News that Minaj and her clicked pretty instantly when they hit the studio together .
`` It was dope -LSB- in the studio -RSB- .
She 's very , very professional .
She sat in the corner and wrote her part and then actually she wrote two raps to the song , '' the singer confided .
`` She actually did one verse and was like , ` Keyshia , I think I can do so much better . '
And I was like , ` Absolutely not - it 's dope and leave it the way it is . '
And then I saw her again and she was like , ` Please , just let me do my thing , ' and I was like , ` absolutely , ' 'cause I understand where she comes from . ''
The song failed to chart and Cole admitted in an interview with Associated Press that releasing the track as the first single was a wrong choice , which was totally down to her .
`` The label did n't really want to drop the record because they knew that people wanted a more intense , soulful record from me about love and I really should have followed -LRB- their -RRB- direction , '' she said .
The singer added that despite its commercial failure she has no regrets , saying `` I wanted that to be a statement record .
It 's like saying , ` I 'm doing me , you know .
I do n't have no regrets for nothing that I 'm doing . ''
Cole told MTV News that Minaj 's contribution to the track came together at the last minute .
`` I had recorded it as one of the first songs on the album , but I never really finished it , '' Cole explained .
`` And then I called her and I was like , ` We should do a song together . '
And when she came through I played it .
I said , ' I did something a long time ago and I do n't know if you might like it , but my manager thinks this is dope . '
And I played it and she liked it . ''
The video was shot in late October in New York City and was directed by Benny Boom .
