This is the third single from Country singer-songwriter Dierks Bentley 's fourth album , Feel That Fire .
Bentley said this song `` ca n't be more intimate , more one-on-one , man-to-one woman if you tried . ''
He added : `` One of the best compliments I can get is when a guy comes up to me and says that one of my songs helped him out at home ... maybe helped him smooth something over with his girlfriend or wife .
That 's the goal with this one . ''
Bentley co-wrote this romantic ballad with his co-producer Brett Beavers .
Brett Beavers explained the lyrical content of this song to AOL 's The Boot : `` When Dierks and I were in the middle of his last album , Feel That Fire , Dierks mentioned to me one day that he thought he might be missing a simple , tender love song .
We bounce ideas off each other all the time , whether we are actually in a writing room together or not , so I made a mental note of his suggestion.The idea of a woman closing her eyes was interesting to us , and the times she might do that ... well , what can I say ?
It 's a pretty sensual visual .
We followed that idea in the direction of a love song , and just kind of chased what that moment is like .
We talked about the scenario where a man is really needing to be with his woman at the end of the day , after he 'd been thinking about her.We began with trying to keep the music fairly simple , to stay out of the way of the lyric , and found a groove we really liked , and a nice swimming melody for the chorus .
Since we are just a couple of country boys , writing a song like this was a bit different than writing about a crazy adventure or life in the country , or whatever .
We tried to key in on the things we thought a woman would like to hear.This song is all about , ' I wan na be with you , ' and finding an interesting and unique way of saying that .
I remember in the second verse , we wanted to add a few more visuals so the song could play in the listener 's mind , so that 's how we approached it.That was pretty much it ... trying to stay focused on the simplicity of an emotion and keep it tender .
We carried this approach forward when recording it for the album , both of us knowing that melody , lyric , groove and production , when all pointed in the same direction , can make a song ring more honest and true .
I 'm very happy with the outcome of the song . ''
