John Lennon wrote this song after having an argument with his wife Cynthia .
He said , `` I was lying next to me first wife in bed , and I was irritated .
She must have been going on and on about something and she 'd gone to sleep and I kept hearing these words over and over , flowing like an endless stream .
I went downstairs and it turned into sort of a cosmic song rather than an irritated song ... it drove me out of bed .
I did n't want to write it , but I was slightly irritable and I went downstairs and I could n't get to sleep until I 'd put it on paper . ''
This first appeared on No One 's Gon na Change Our World , a charity album for the World Wildlife Fund -LRB- They 're the ones who sued the World Wrestling Federation and made them stop using `` WWF '' -RRB- .
Bird noises were dubbed in to this version to create a nature theme.This song is often cited as an example of tensions between Lennon and McCartney over treatment of each other 's songs .
When The Beatles went to record it in February of 1968 , both Lennon and McCartney decided they wanted falsetto harmonies on the song .
No matter what he did , John said he was sounding out of tune , so Paul went outside and grabbed two `` Apple Scruffs '' named Lizzie Bravo and Gaylene Pease to add the background harmonies .
John is quoted again about that , saying , `` the original track was a real piece of s -- t. I was singing out of tune , and instead of getting a decent choir , we got fans from outside .
They came in and were singing all off-key .
Nobody was interested in doing the tune originally . ''
In another interview , he said , `` The Beatles did n't make a good record of it .
I think subconsciously sometimes we - I say ` we ' although I think Paul did it more than the rest of us - Paul would , sort of subconsciously , try and destroy a great song ... meaning we 'd play experimental games with my great pieces , like ` Strawberry Fields , ' which I always thought was badly recorded .
`` The two young women Paul grabbed off the street to sing backup appear on the World Wildlife recording of the song , but not on the version on Let It Be .
While the Let It Be movie and album were being sorted out , The Beatles recorded their last album , Abbey Road , and then broke up .
George Harrison and John Lennon asked Phil Spector to take the tapes from the Let It Be project and produce the album from them .
Spector took out the bird sounds , slowed the tape down , and added an orchestra and choir .
The result was a very lush arrangement using his `` Wall Of Sound '' technique .
This was originally going to be the B-side to `` Lady Madonna , '' but `` The Inner Light '' was chosen instead .
-LRB- thanks , Adrian - Wilmington , DE -RRB- In a 1971 interview with Rolling Stone , Lennon disclosed that this is one of his favorite Beatles records as , `` It 's one of the best lyrics I 've written .
In fact , it could be the best . ''
He added : `` It 's good poetry , or whatever you call it , without chewin ' it .
See , the ones I like are the ones that stand as words , without melody .
They do n't have to have any melody , like a poem , you can read them . ''
At the 2001 John Lennon tribute special at Madison Square Garden , Sean Lennon performed this with Moby and Rufus Wainwright .
Moby wore one of John 's shirts that Sean gave him .
At the 2005 Grammy awards , Brian Wilson , Alicia Keys , Tim McGraw , Bono , Stevie Wonder , Norah Jones and members of Velvet Revolver played this as a tribute to tsunami victims in Asia .
The single was sold to raise money for the victims , and peaked at # 22 on the Billboard Hot 100 , making it the first chart appearance for the song .
It also held the record for a time of the fastest selling download on iTunes .
This song was the title for the 2007 movie , Across the Universe , who 's plot line was centered around songs by the Beatles .
Across the Universe stars Jim Stirges and Evan Rachel Wood .
-LRB- thanks , Breanna - Henderson , NV -RRB- The refrain `` Jai Guru Deva Om '' is a mantra intended to lull the mind into a higher consciousness .
The words are in Sanskrit , and they mean `` I give thanks to Guru Dev , '' who was the teacher of The Maharishi .
The `` Om '' at the end is the drawn out `` oooohm '' used in meditation to relate to the natural vibration of the universe .
While visiting the Maharishi in Rishikesh , John purchased a set of brass bracelets with the words `` Jai Guru Dev '' imprinted on them .
The bracelets are now in the possession of Julian Lennon and were on display at the `` White Feather-The Spirit Of John Lennon '' exhibit at the Beatles Story in Liverpool .
For a while , this was not going to be part of Let It Be .
The album was going to be called `` Get Back '' and was supposed to be recorded in front of a live audience for a TV special , with film footage of The Beatles practicing the songs in the studio used for a companion special .
When things did n't go well , they decided to scrap the TV project but use the footage for their last movie , which became Let It Be .
The tapes of them practicing in the studio would be worked into an album to go with the film .
The first version of the album did not include this , but when the movie was edited , it included a scene where The Beatles play this , so it was added to the album .
This was later recorded by David Bowie with Lennon on guitar .
It appears on Bowie 's 1975 album Young Americans .
Paul played piano on both recordings of this song .
One version for the World Wildlife Fund -LRB- with the Apple Scruff harmonies -RRB- and the other for what became the Let It Be LP , with Phil Spector adding the choir , which John really loved .
Fiona Apple covered this in 1999 .
Other notable artists to record the song include Cilla Black , Jackson Browne and Laibach .
Rufus Wainwright also recorded it for the I Am Sam soundtrack .
This was a huge influence on Liam Gallagher from Oasis .
It turned him on to The Beatles and inspired him to write songs .
On February 4 , 2008 `` Across The Universe '' became the first track to be beamed directly into space .
It was transmitted through NASA 's antenna in the DSN 's Madrid Deep Space Communication Complex , towards the North Star , Polaris , 431 light-years from Earth .
The broadcasting of the Fab Four song was done to mark both NASA 's 50th birthday and the 40th anniversary of `` Across The Universe . ''
Paul McCartney described the transmission as an `` amazing feat '' adding , `` Well done , NASA .
Send my love to the aliens ! ''
