Taylor previewed this upbeat track on the October 1 , 2012 episode of ABC 's Good Morning America .
The song finds the Country-Pop star playing with the idea of colors in relation to her emotions about a former beau , as she sings : `` Losing him is blue , like I 'd never known .
Missing him was dark grey , all alone .
Forgetting him was like trying to know somebody you never met .
But loving him was red . ''
Before playing the track , Swift explained its meaning : `` I wrote this song about the fact that some things are just hard to forget , '' she said , `` because the emotions involved with them were so intense and , to me , intense emotion is red . ''
This seems like a good time to point out that Taylor 's ex , John Mayer -LRB- likely the subject of her song `` Dear John '' -RRB- , has synaesthesia , which means he sees music as colors .
And one more thing on the topic : Fiona Apple did something similar - relating intense feelings to the color red - on her 2005 song `` Red Red Red . ''
Writing this song was a turning point for Taylor , when she decided to work with different songwriters rather than Nathan Chapman , whom she wrote with on her first three albums .
`` I turned in 20 songs and I had this immediate sinking feeling , this ca n't be done , this ca n't be it , '' she explained to Billboard magazine .
`` I think the reason I said that was because I made the record exactly the same way I made the last three .
I knew I had n't jumped out of my comfort zone , which at the time was writing alone and working with Nathan .
` Red ' the song was a real turning point for Red the album .
When I wrote that song my mind started wandering to all the places we could go .
If I were to think outside the box enough , go in with different people , I could learn from and have what they do rub off on me as well as have what I do rub off on them . ''
The Red album topped the sales charts in 42 countries .
Swift performed this song at the Grammy Awards in 2014 , where she was nominated for Best Country Album , Best Country Song -LRB- `` Begin Again '' -RRB- and Album Of The Year .
She did n't claim any awards , but got a rousing ovation for her performance .
Taylor first announced the title of the album during a web-chat on August 13 , 2012 .
The Country star explained that she decided to name the LP after this song , as its lyrics encompass the entire theme of the project .
`` Thinking about what that means to me and all the different emotions that are written about on this album - they 're all pretty much about the tumultuous , crazy , insane , intense , semi-toxic relationships that I 've experienced in the last two years , '' she noted .
`` All those emotions - spanning from intense love , intense frustration , jealousy , confusion - in my mind , all those emotions are red .
There 's nothing in between ; there is nothing beige about any of those feelings . ''
Red sold 1.208 million copies in its debut week , which was more than any album since 2002 , when Eminem sold 1.322 million copies of The Eminem Show in its first seven days .
This meant that Taylor became the first woman ever to have two million-selling weeks since SoundScan started keeping track of album sales in 1991 .
-LRB- 2010 's Speak Now , sold 1.047 million copies in its first week -RRB- .
The Red album was based around one particular romance which ended badly , so Swift was surprised to receive a phone call from the ex in question after he heard the tracks .
She told New York Magazine , '' -LRB- I -RRB- heard from the guy that most of Red is about .
He was like , ' I just listened to the album , and that was a really bittersweet experience for me .
It was like going through a photo album . '
That was nice .
Nicer than , like , the ranting , crazy emails I got from this one dude .
It 's a lot more mature way of looking at a love that was wonderful until it was terrible , and both people got hurt from it - but one of those people happened to be a songwriter .
So what are you going to do ?
Did you not Wikipedia me before you called me up -LRB- for a date -RRB- ? ''
