This is the first single from American singer-songwriter Josh Kelley 's debut Country album .
He wrote the song with his brother Charles , who is a member of Lady Antebellum , plus Clint Lagerberg .
As he states in this song , Kelley was the first of his friends to get a fake I.D. - he had a full beard when he was just 15 .
He says all the little incidents mentioned in the song are true .
Where did all that Georgia Clay come from , exactly ?
Kelley told us : `` I think it was Lake Chatuge , up in the North Georgia Mountains .
It 's in Young Harris , Hiawassee area .
I know it 's crazy , it 's way up in the mountains .
But yeah , that truck was up there a lot , because that 's where my dad 's farm was .
He raised Black Angus cattle up there and stuff .
Half of our life we grew up raising them , helping him with the cattle and bush-hogging the land .
We were his slave labor .
So we would go out to Lake Chatuge and take out the pontoon boat . ''
-LRB- Check out the full Josh Kelley interview . -RRB-
Kelley was drinking some whiskey with his brother when they got the idea for this song , which brings up some great memories growing up in Augusta , Georgia -LRB- same as James Brown -RRB- .
Said Josh : `` The whole idea behind ` Georgia Clay ' came during a series of conversations with my brother Charles .
High school was fun because we did n't overdo it , we did n't over-think it ; we just had fun .
We are so close in age that we have always been each other 's best friend .
I always joke with him that he was born to be my best buddy .
My friends meshed with his friends and we 'd all go down to the lake .
We 'd pull these two jet-skis behind my Dad 's white '77 Silverado .
` Georgia Clay ' is basically the thought that we could go back to the garage and look at a car like that old hooptie we had , and all those memories are layers of mud on the car , from rope swings to jet skis to getting stung , basically every first time in our youth happened on that lake . ''
Kelley recorded Pop songs throughout the ' 00s , but he thinks Country is really his calling .
We spoke with him the day before Georgia Clay was released , and he was very excited .
Said Kelley : `` It looks really good , too .
Finally .
On an album cover , I finally look like me , it even sounds like me .
Man , it took 10 years to do that . ''
