This 11-minute epic is the title-track from American singer-songwriter Joanna Newsom 's third studio album .
The song details the life of Irish born Lola Montez , -LRB- 1821 -- 1861 -RRB- who became famous as a Spanish dancer .
Her infamous `` Spider Dance '' ensnared King Ludwig I of Bavaria and she became his mistress .
Have One On Me is over two hours long and spread out over three discs .
Newsom explained to Time Magazine : `` I tried to sequence it so that it could be listened to in its entirety and had a progression that felt thematically logical and natural .
In a way , the three records are like chapters in a book .
Unless you 're serializing a book you would n't separate the chapters , but they 're also meant to be these little self-contained segments within the narrative . ''
One of the places where Montez ended up living was Grass Valley , close to Joanna Newsom 's home town of Nevada City in California .
Have One on Me was chosen by UK 's Uncut magazine critics as their Best Album of 2010 .
Montez is said to be the inspiration for the saying `` Whatever Lola Wants , Lola Gets , '' which was also the title of a Richard Adler and Jerry Ross song written for the 1955 musical play , Damn Yankees .
Newsom told The Independent that the album title was chosen for its association with drinking and decadence as well as its emotional connotations .
She explained : `` It felt kind of appropriate to have the expression people use when they 're buying a round , but also in the song that the title comes from , the expression is sort of used as an example of self-sacrifice .
I was thinking of it in terms of a bottle that 's full , and then you pour into someone else 's glass , and it 's a little less full , and the giving of yourself diminishes the self . ''
Newsom explained to The Observer May 9 , 2010 why she chose to pen a song about Montez : `` I 've always been fascinated by her , '' she said .
`` And in recent years , I found there was a parallel between what I do as a profession and what it meant to be a female artist at that time .
I was noting the intersections between being a courtesan or a whore , and these professions that were socially looked down upon , the sort of professions that were basically creative . ''
