This is the title track and lead single from pop recording artist Miley Cyrus ' third album .
Miley co-wrote the song with the `` 7 Things '' collaborators Tim James and Antonina Armato , who also produced the single .
The song 's raunchy music video was directed by Robert Hales , choreographed by Jamal Sims and shot on April 10 and April 11 , 2010 at Sony Studios in Culver City .
The clip features Cyrus , dressed in a black leotard and expansive black wings , dancing very intimately with male and female dancers throughout a museum .
The singer is first trapped in a giant bird cage , being observed by spectators ; she then escapes and trashes the museum .
Cyrus said of the video to MTV News , `` It 's about the core of ' I do n't wan na be in a cage .
I want to be free and do what I love . '
`` Cyrus told MTV News that her performing with the backup dancers was `` freestyle in the dark where they had one small light .
We freestyled and danced around .
The lighting is so amazing in this video .
It 's so cool , so much fun to dance with all your friends .
I love the way it 's slow-mo , and I can see all my friends ' faces .
`` She added about her costume : `` I actually had a completely different -LSB- costume -RSB- .
And that morning , creatively , I was n't feeling the other one , so we made this one right there in the morning , and we added pieces throughout the day ... more leather and more feathers .
I think it 's really fun and kept changing the look . ''
Miley 's label , Hollywood Records , said this is `` a self-empowering song in which Miley asserts that she has to stay true to herself in relationships , and it is sure to become an anthem among her legions of fans around the world . ''
Miley told Billboard magazine about her relationship with frequent songwriting collaborator Antonina Armato : `` I call Antonina ` Mommy ' because she 's my second mom , '' Miley said .
`` No one could ever understand the relationship we have .
I 've been working with her for four years and every day I go into the studio and we just sit around and eat cupcakes and talk and I tell her everything about my life .
I think that 's why we make good music together . ''
