This song was influenced by the 1978 movie Damien : Omen II , which is about a 13-year-old Antichrist .
It was written by Iron Maiden bass player Steve Harris , who explained : `` Basically , this song is about a dream .
It 's not about devil worship . ''
The number of the beast , according to Revelation 13:18 -LRB- the quoted scripture -RRB- , is 666 .
Interestingly , 6 +6 +6 is 18 , the number of the verse .
Elsewhere in that chapter , it is stated that no man will be able to buy or sell without a mark on the right hand or forehead with the number of the beast on it .
This has lead to religious zealots `` finding '' 666 in practically everything .
During the recording of the album , there were rumors floating about that supernatural occurrences had been going on in the studio , such as lights flipping on and off , strange noises , visions of Satan , etc. .
This was used as evidence that Satan and the Antichrist had a hand in making this .
In a concert at New York 's Palladium on June 29 , 1982 -LRB- which is heavily bootlegged -RRB- , Bruce Dickinson said : `` Just want to say to all the people who play records backwards and burn albums out in the streets , they can go and get ... stick their heads up their arse or something like that , 'cause ... we ai n't interested . ''
The tour accompanying the album 's release was called `` The Beast on the Road . ''
The Number of the Beast album surprisingly came top of a survey by music retailer HMV to find the UK public 's favourite British album during the Queen 's 60 years on the throne .
The poll attracted almost 55,000 votes in the month preceding the Queen 's Diamond Jubilee via Facebook , including presumably a fair number of Maiden fans .
An HMV spokesman commented : `` The power of social media means there are one or two surprises . ''
This was re-released as a single in the UK in January 2005 .
This time , it went to # 3 .
-LRB- thanks , Tom - Trowbridge , England , for above 2 -RRB- Before the music starts , this opens with an a cappella quote from The Book of Revelation .
The band wanted the horror film actor Vincent Price to read this intro , but he wanted more money than they were willing to pay -LRB- a year later , Price lent his voice to Michael Jackson 's `` Thriller '' -RRB- .
The quote was read by an unknown thespian actor who had no interest in the band .
-LRB- thanks , Jeff - Haltom City , TX , for above 2 -RRB- The cover art for the album depicted Iron Maiden 's mascot Eddie and a devil in vicious combat in Hell .
The cover art for single depicted Eddie with a sinister grin on his face holding the devil 's head -LRB- See also : `` Run to the Hills '' -RRB- .
On the cover art , just right of the devil 's ankle , is artist Derek Riggs ' signature : the unique symbol which contains his initials .
Lead singer Bruce Dickinson said of this song : `` We can play with conviction every night , because we totally believe in the music we 're performing . ''
This quote , along with the line `` 666 , the one for you and me '' led many preachers and enemies of rock music to believe Maiden were Satanists .
-LRB- thanks , Brett - Edmonton , Canada , for above 7 -RRB- This was used in the soundtrack for Tony Hawk 's Pro Skater 4 .
As he explained on the BBC Classic Albums series , Bruce Dickinson 's high-pitched scream at the end of the intro was a result of producer Martin Birch forcing the band to replay the intro several times .
Dickinson became so fed up with the constant repeats that he emitted the scream out of frustration , and it fit so well that the band decided to keep it .
-LRB- thanks , Alex - Redford , MI -RRB-
