In our interview with Ryan Star , the former Rock Star : Supernova contestant explained that this song is about a real person .
Said Star : `` She was what people call a cutter , inflicting pain on themselves .
And I never knew it .
I fell for all the excuses for a long time .
And then I got to witness it and see it .
It was hard , and I was also feeling that I was responsible for it .
There 's a lot of weight around that song .
And it 's my joke song , it 's a funny tongue-in-cheek song , but it 's quite possibly the heaviest real-life experience .
And to be honest , I keep in touch with the hero of that one .
I get a great reaction when I sing , ` Now it 's all about having fun , I 'm with the girl in the song , but now I 'm paying a price and know the sex was nice .
You 're a psycho suicidal girl . '
-LRB- laughs -RRB- So it 's funny : ` is the juice worth the squeeze , ' as they say . ''
How much of this song is true ?
Star told us : `` I sometimes introduce it as saying that in all of my other songs I 'm half full of s -- t , but this song every word is true .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- It 's my most honest song that I think I 've ever written .
I had this line , ` You 're wasting my time ' or something .
And again , I was falling into a new relationship , realizing , Well , where is this old one going ?
And I mean , line for line , you could read it .
It 's just the story.The funny side is I think there 's a little bit of that in everybody .
I introduce the song at concerts , and I say , ` Listen , everybody , if you know somebody like this in your life , then you 're totally in the clear .
So it 's all good , you guys are gon na be fine .
But if you do n't know somebody like this , it 's probably you . '
-LRB- laughing -RRB- So I tell them to really get in there and scratch their brains and find someone , because I think there is a little bit of everybody in this song , and that 's why I think I like it so much .
I get to concerts and guys and girls , are wearing shirts that say ` psycho suicidal girl . '
It 's like they all relate .
And on the more sad side , it is very true.I make light of it and I actually still know this person now , but at the time it was very hard because there was a very real thing happening .
I kid you not , I opened the bathroom door to a pretty big mess one day .
And I reacted the way I react in life , which is usually not too emotional .
I kind of take it in , and I wind up putting it in songs .
But it was a very matter-of-fact thing , and it was a very intense experience for me to see somebody treating themselves like that .
But then I also learned a lot about what people do and what people go through .
And it 's a real problem . ''
