This is a track from Leveler , the fourth studio album by American metalcore band August Burns Red .
It was the second song that guitarist / primary songwriter JB Brubaker wrote for the record .
He told AntiMusic : `` I did n't set out to write a mariachi inspired metal song .
It just sort of happened .
The first minute or so came very naturally to me and sounded like a typical August Burns Red song .
It had a thrashy intro , a big breakdown , and a lot of riffing going on .
What threw the song for a loop was the key change that occurs right before the first clean section .
It changes into a key ABR has never played in before and as a result , it just sounded different .
I could n't just go into a heavy open C breakdown because of the key the song had changed to .
We have key changes in a lot of our songs , but they are never on purpose .
They are simply a result of where the guitars happen to go .
I wish I had a better explanation for this , but as a writer who has very little knowledge of music theory I ca n't explain why .
Upon changing keys the song goes into what I like to call the `` cruise ship '' part .
It 's a light beachy sounding section that sounds nothing like anything ABR has ever played before .
Matt -LRB- our drummer -RRB- recorded all kinds of percussion instruments over the section and I play a little guitar lead that a hula dancer could shake her hips to .
It was at this point that I knew this song was going in strange places and I liked it.After the cruise ship section the song rips back into a thrashy metal riff that does n't sound out of the ordinary in the least , but things get weird immediately after .
The song does a complete 180 as everything drops out except a simple quiet clean guitar line that has a distinctive mariachi vibe .
While recording this part our producer , Jason Suecof , described it as something straight out of a Quentin Tarantino film .
This mariachi esque section is one of my favorite moments on the entire album because of how off the wall it is .
The quiet mariachi section is followed by a long guitar solo that I 've been told sounds like Carlos Santana gone metal .
It 's my favorite solo that I 've ever written and I remember sitting in my room for hours working on it .
My fingers were getting shredded from bending my strings so much which is something I had n't done much of in the past .
I had an absolute blast writing that guitar solo . ''
The song does n't really play by the rules of metal core and Brubaker was nervous as to how the rest of my band would react to it .
He told AntiMusic : `` There were mixed feeling about this song within the band when I first showed it to everyone , but in time we all got on the same page and went with it .
I figured if we 're going to try something different we might as well go all out and make it as crazy as we want .
I hope people have as much fun listening to that song as I did writing it . ''
