Singer Yannis Philippakis explained the song 's apocalyptic lyrics to NME : `` It 's like an observer charting the end of the world , '' he said .
`` Everything starts collapsing , life as you know it wilts and falls out of the sky , bits of you fall into the ground and then it has a progression and it feels like something 's coming near .
The sound sweeps over you and the lyrics are an acceptance of your fate .
You 're happy that this big , white fireball 's heading for you . ''
The lyrics for this end of the world song was inspired by the opening scene of Melancholia by Lars von Trier , which shows things sliding off the Earth .
Philippakis told NME : `` I like this image of walking through somewhere and it being the end of days .
It 's just total , total decay .
It 's all just matter disintegrating into dust .
Then there 's a shift in the song and then you 're accepting of it .
It 's like you 're almost embracing the white light that 's headed for you .
It 's death .
It 's one of my favourite songs , that one . ''
Drummer Jack Bevan told Artist Direct this is one of the few Foals songs where he had no part in the writing process .
He explained : `` That song was written by Yannis and Jimmy -LRB- Smith , guitar -RRB- alone one evening at our studio in Oxford .
They went in there with a bottle of whisky and some cigarettes and jammed it out .
A lot of our best songs just come out without any laboring .
` Moon ' was like that .
` My Number ' came together in an hour or so as well . ''
Philippakis told NME this was recorded in one night - just him and Jimmy Smith -LRB- guitar/keyboards -RSB- .
`` We played it for five hours non-stop , '' he recalled .
Philippakis admitted to Spinner that he is fascinated by apocalyptic images but does n't subscribe to any fatalistic views regarding the future .
`` I do n't believe in that doom-mongering , superstitious stuff , '' he said .
`` I think it 's self-important to think we 're going to be present to see the world end .
There is a preoccupation with what it will look like , yes .
It 's virtually depicting a scene where everything was rocking and crumbling .
`` He added that Holy Fire was named more for pure drama .
`` It just felt like it was a good title for the record .
All five of us agree it evoked the right thing in the record , the right kind of intensity , '' said Philippakis .
`` I like these huge words that have a lot of significance , they can make their own kind of a message . ''
