This is the third single from American Country music singer Lee Brice 's sophomore album , Hard 2 Love .
Jessi Alexander , Connie Harrington and Jimmy Yeary penned the ballad and it was Harrington who originally came up with the song 's concept after hearing a radio interview with a grieving family .
Brice explained on his website : `` One of the writers heard an interview with a couple whose son was killed a month after joining the military .
The interviewer asked how in the world they dealt with the pain .
They said they would drive his truck around and somehow they felt he was there with them , and that pulled them through . ''
The song 's music video is a family affair .
`` It became a personal song to me the very first time that I heard it , and I thought about my granddaddy , and what I would like to do with the video , '' Brice told Billboard magazine .
`` Since it was so personal to me , I asked my brother to be the actual actor , the ` star ' of the video .
He did an amazing job on it , and I have a feeling that people are just going to be really moved by it . ''
The song topped the Billboard Country singles chart .
`` I was immediately drawn to this song , so I 'm not surprised that fans have connected to it like they have , '' responded Brice to the news that it had reached # 1 .
`` Since we put it out as a single , fans from across the country have shared their own truck stories through just about any way they can - calling into the radio , on tour at meet-and-greet , Twitter , Facebook , emails and texts .
I 'm just glad I got to be a part of this special song . ''
At an event held at the Country Music Association building in Nashville to honor the song 's writers , Yeary recalled that , `` Connie absolutely cried like a baby at every point in writing this song . ''
When she did n't cry , he continued , they knew the lyrics were n't up to scratch .
This won Song of the Year at the 2013 Country Music Association Awards .
It was Jessi Alexander 's first CMA success as a writer , though her husband , Jon Randall , was awarded the same honor in 2005 with Bill Anderson for `` Whiskey Lullaby . ''
She told reporters backstage that now , `` we can have his and her CMA Awards at the house . ''
Brice said that as soon he heard the song , he knew he had to cut it .
`` I went around town and listened to a lot of songs , '' he explained , `` and one of the publishers said , ' I know you 're looking for some lighter stuff , but I 've got a song that we feel is the song of the year . '
They played it , and I started losing it in front of everybody .
It just killed me .
It made me think about my granddaddy , and everybody I 'd lost . ''
Brice recalled the recording of the cut to reporters at a media event .
`` I do n't honestly know why I have my hands on that song , because it seems to me Garth Brooks could have got his hands on it , '' he said .
`` Anybody in the world would have recorded that song .
I somehow got my hands on it first .
The first time I heard it , it really broke me down , and I had to listen to it over and over again .
When I went into the studio , I remembered how -LRB- the demo -RRB- made me feel , so when I was singing it , I wanted to make sure I did n't screw that up ... that I made that feeling come across with my recording of it the same as the demo .
The songwriters , when they recorded that song , they did it right .
I wanted to make sure I honored them and was putting forth the kind of emotions they wanted to come across . ''
Once the song started climbing the charts , Harrington realized that she 'd forgotten the name of the soldier that the tune memorialized .
However , the publishers unearthed the original National Public Radio for a Memorial Day interview in 2011 , which featured Paul Monti , the father of Medal of Honor recipient Jared Monti , who was killed in battle in Afghanistan in 2006 .
Paul explained how he kept the memory of his departed son fresh .
`` I drive his truck , '' he said .
Brice recalled at the same event that he had approached publisher Rusty Gaston in search of some lighter tunes to complete his album .
After hearing them , he said he was ready to go home when Gaston asked if he could play him one other song , which of course was this one .
