This song was released as a promotional single from Country band Rascal Flatts seventh album , Nothing Like This on October 25 , 2010 .
Jason Sellers and Steve Robson wrote the tune .
`` One of the more special songs on this album for me is ' I Wo n't Let Go , ' '' said Rascal Flatts member Joe Don Rooney .
`` Being a parent now and listening to that song really hits home and truly hits me in the heart . ''
Rascal Flatts lead singer Gary LeVox told The Vancouver Sun how the song touched him in a profound way .
`` It was spiritual for me , it was what God was saying to me : ` You may fall but I wo n't let go , ' '' he explained .
`` That 's the power of a great song , a universal lyric that means so many different things to so many different people . ''
According to the press release , this song about the strength of love and friendship in times of trouble is a `` You 've Got a Friend '' for the new millennium .
Sellers explained the spiritual inspiration behind this song to The Boot : '' ' I Wo n't Let Go ' is special to me because I 'm a Christian .
It felt like to me , because we did n't define the character in the song , it could be a friend saying it to a friend , it could in some sense be God saying it to someone , it could be you saying it to your husband or wife ... So in that sense , the song 's exciting to me , because it 's got an inspirational message .
It says something good that lifts people up.I wrote this song with Steve Robson about two years ago .
He 's from England , and he and Darrell Franklin had some deal together , where Darrell handles Steve 's co-writes and publishing .
So he set me and Steve up .
This was the first song Steve and I ever wrote together .
He came over from England , and we worked on the melody and the direction of the lyrics .
Steve is an incredible writer .
We did n't have to spend that much time on it .
He had a musical piece already going .
It just felt so inspired , and we built on that.After Steve left , I poured over what we had a lot more , because I loved the message and I wanted to make it as close to right as I could make it .
I was thinking , if you were quoting what someone was saying in their own words ... if they were saying this to someone in the family that 's a soldier that 's over there fighting , or to your mom , dad , wife , husband ... I think everyone wants to have someone say to them , ` Hey , I ca n't stop it from raining on you , but I will be here to help you get through .
` We get emails from people - and I know a lot of artists and labels do , too - how a song touches someone 's life .
I do this for a living , and I 'm trying to make money ... but when you get those kinds of stories and feedback , you really feel like you had some contribution .
With an uplifting lyric like that , maybe it gives somebody hope to move forward and make it through another day , through whatever their trauma or disaster is , or even just getting tired in life . ''
