The Court Yard Hounds album spans sounds of folk , country , rock and Americana , and on this song about an angry , disapproving father , the sisters rock out .
The Boot asked Martie Maguire if was there any concern about the genre that the music would fit into .
She replied : `` Not really , because Emily was doing her own demos and she would give the songs to me and they were basically complete .
Some of them were guitar-vocal , but some of them had a Dobro part or had a garage-band drum loop , just to kind of get her idea across .
So it was all in her head , and when I got them it was actually hard to add a full band to them because I was so married to the demos .
Emily does n't really write with a genre in mind , she writes with an idea or a melody , and that drives it .
I 'm the same kind of songwriter .
-LSB- I do n't say -RSB- ` I 'm gon na sit down and write a rock song ' or ` I 'm gon na sit down a write a country song . '
We have a bluegrass background and that tends to seep into things , the kind of acoustic nature of things -LSB- on songs like -RSB- ` Ai n't No Son ' and ` The Coast , ' the very dry acoustic sound comes from our love of liking the natural sound of instruments .
It 's not a very affected sound .
That sometimes can lean more country or more acoustic , but ... when we put an electric guitar in there , that would take it in a rock direction .
I think Rolling Stone called it ` folk-rock , ' which I thought was an interesting categorization . ''
Lyrically the song is an angry argument between a father and a son who 's revealed he is gay .
Robison was originally inspired to write the song after watching a documentary on children coming out.Maguire told the Australian newspaper Star Observer : `` We wrote it after Emily had watched a documentary about families who throw their young boys out of the house when they find out they 're gay .
She was really disturbed by that mentality .
She does n't like having to sing it from the father 's perspective , because she really has to become that person when she 's singing it . ''
