This was written by the husband and wife songwriting team of Barry Mann and Cynthia Weil .
Mann had just signed a record deal and recorded this song himself , but his version was pulled when The Animals released the song .
Mann and Weil were very productive in the mid - '60s , as they made the transition from writing fluffy pop songs like `` Blame It On The Bossa Nova '' to songs with more of a message , which appealed to Rock bands like The Animals .
Animals lead singer Eric Burdon came in # 57 in a Rolling Stone poll to find the greatest singers of all time .
On this song , he delivers an anger and energy that was an influence on later Punk bands .
In our 2010 interview with Eric Burdon , he said : `` I 've always viewed myself as a punk .
The Animals could have evolved that way .
We had the energy and the anger , but we did n't stick together .
When the punk scene became commercial , I was all for the politics of the movement , but the music did n't really stand up and ultimately , it was self destructive . ''
Adrian Cronauer -LRB- the movie Good Morning Vietnam was based on his life -RRB- mentioned on a special Independence Day show on Sirius Satellite Radio that this was the most requested song on Armed Forces Radio when he was in Vietnam .
-LRB- thanks , Ben - Philly , PA -RRB- At the 2012 SXSW festival in Austin , Texas , Bruce Springsteen talked about this song when he gave the keynote speech .
After reciting the lyrics , he said , `` That 's every song I 've ever written .
`` Bruce was referring to his penchant for writing songs about getting away in search for something better in life .
The Animals producer Mickie Most heard this song and had the band record it .
He was looking for American material as he was trying to break the band in the States , and had a call out to the New York City songwriters in the Brill Building and 1650 Broadway looking for songs .
There are two entirely different recordings of this song by The Animals .
The US single version is an alternate take , shipped to MGM , The Animals ' American record label , by mistake .
Nevertheless , this is a far superior version of the song .
Unfortunately , it 's this version that 's played by almost all Oldies radio stations today .
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Youngstown , OH -RRB- Other artists to record the song include Blue Oyster Cult , Grand Funk Railroad , and Ann Wilson of Heart .
