This is the title track of American rock band 3 Doors Down 's second acoustic EP .
The other seven tracks are acoustic takes on songs from their 2008 self-titled album , plus an acoustic version of this song .
Arnold explained the lyrical content of the track in he same interview : `` When I started to write the song , I thought about what Christmas meant to me .
There are so many memories that I can think back on .
I 'm the youngest of seven kids .
I have a really big family and all of them are around at Christmas .
I started thinking about the times from when I was a kid -- not even the presents I got , but just being around my family and the cooking .
I even started exploring the idea of how you miss people that are gone around Christmas time .
You do n't really miss them with sadness .
You just think about the times that they were there .
I tried to write something that talked about all of that .
`` He added : `` It talks about the snow on the windows , but there 's always somebody by the end of the night -- whether it 's your brother-in-law or another relative -- that 's in the recliner sleeping by the fire -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
You 're sitting there talking and there 's children just running everywhere !
I thought of a line about that .
Somehow these children just never get tired !
There are so many people around my house and the kids are running amok , but it 's cool !
That 's the great thing about it .
I think that 's my favorite part of the song . ''
Frontman Brad Arnold explained to Artist Direct why he decided to pen a Christmas song : `` We were already planning on the EP being released around Christmas , so we did want it to have a bit of a Christmas feel .
I 've never written a Christmas song before , and it sounded like an interesting challenge , honestly .
I was glad because it gave me a chance to explore and think about what Christmas means to me -- being around your family , being with your friends , being with the people that you love and being thankful for those things . ''
