Nail was going through a long depression when he wrote this song , which is about a girl he dated for about three years .
They had broken up , gotten back together , and were going through another rough patch .
`` It 's without a doubt the most honest and personal song I 've written , '' says Nail .
`` It was more or less me crying out , pleading for her to leave me because I did n't have the courage to do it myself . ''
The girl Nail sings about is from Georgia , but he wrote the song at his parents ' house in Missouri .
He told American Songwriter magazine that he got to the point where he was hoping she would break up with him , but realized it was n't going to happen .
Said Nail : `` I realized I guess over the Thanksgiving holidays at the end of that month that that was n't going to be the case .
That she was in for good , and there 's no telling how bad I could 've treated her or how many mistakes I would have made , she was just going to tolerate it .
I think at the end of December , a month later , I finally realized that I was going to have to take the initiative and did .
I joke all the time saying that I hope she hears it everyday for the rest of her life but I really do n't mean that .
At least , most of the time I do n't mean it .
`` Nail continued : `` It was one of those subconscious things where I sat down .
I did n't know what the hell was about to come out , and it just did .
And it 's one of those things when you read it back you 're like , ` Holy crap .
What the hell ?
I 'm a jerk ! '
It was one of those cool things , I never in a million years thought anybody was going to play it , or that I was going to record it .
When I met Frank Liddell he asked me right off the bat , ` Do you have any songs ? '
And I guess just subconsciously I felt that , writer-wise , it was one of the strongest ones and so I played it and he just said , ` Man , that 's incredible ! '
And it was one of the first five things we cut .
And then I think as you get away from the situation and can kind of look at it as a piece of art , and you 're not so close to the situation , it 's easier to play it .
But I guarantee you not a time goes by that I sing it that I do n't remember what it was like the first time that I played it . ''
