In this song featuring the vocals of Australian born singer Daniel Merriweather , Ronson produced a Motown pastiche cover of The Smiths ' song , `` Stop Me If You Think You 've Heard This One Before , '' merging it with The Supremes `` You Keep Me Hangin ' On . ''
`` Stop Me If You Think You 've Heard This One Before '' was originally featured on the Smiths ' 1987 album Strangeways , Here We Come .
It was originally planned to be released as a single but the band changed their mind after the BBC banned the song .
This was because of the lyric `` And plan a mass murder '' during a sensitive time in Britain after the massacre of 16 people by an unemployed laborer in the town of Hungerford .
Merriweather recalled to The Guardian April 24 , 2009 that he had barely heard of this song before he recorded it .
He explained : `` Mark said , ' I want you to sing on this - it 's my favourite Smiths song , ' so I listened to it .
I 'd heard it once before , but I was never a Smiths fan .
But I thought it was beautiful . ''
This achieved the highest ever UK chart position for a Smiths song .
Ronson was asked in an interview with Word magazine January 2008 about the criticism he has received for covering a Smiths track to his own background .
He replied , `` There 's always been a bit of irreverence .
I realized as a DJ that I could n't just play a Smiths song , but if I put one over a Run DMC instrumental people would n't realize what they were dancing to until it was too late .
I 've never thought for a second people would get angry , I 'm just making a Smiths cover in a way those who knew my music might understand .
But it did get annoying when people left messages on my MySpace saying , ` I 'm gon na stab you , you 've ruined my favorite song . '
Really ?
You get that worked up about a song ? ''
Merriweather told Jam !
Music that he was relieved when he heard The Smiths ' singer Morrissey and guitarist Johnny Marr gave their cover the thumbs up .
`` I think Mark was really worried because he knew the gravity of covering a Smiths song , '' said Merriweather .
`` The next worse thing from Morrissey hating it , would be all his fans hating it and that 's probably the worst thing to happen .
But we sent it to Johnny Marr and Morrissey and they both loved it and we got the green light from them - but we then had to deal with the fans .
There was definitely two or three death threats Mark received when that happened .
There were a couple of angry Smiths fans .
I 'm sure it was the threat of being stabbed but really when it probably came down to it they 'd be flailing a daffodil around at us .
I do n't think it would have been all that violent .
They 're pretty much one of the most protective fan bases in the world .
It 's crazy .
But Smiths fans are crazy . ''
