Labrinth is Timothy McKenzie , an English dance / hip hop singer and producer .
This is his debut single as a solo artist .
Prior to the song 's release , Labrinth had already achieved two Top 10 singles in the UK in collaboration with rapper Tinie Tempah on the songs `` Pass Out '' and `` Frisky '' .
He has also worked with JLS and Pixie Lott .
Labrinth is signed to Simon Cowell 's record label , Syco and is the pop mogul 's first non-talent show signing in six years .
It is believed that Cowell recruited Labrinth after the X-Factor guru decided he wanted to branch out from pop and find acts with edge who he could groom from the ground up .
Labrinth admitted to the NME that he was not impressed with the song 's accompanying video .
He explained : `` There were random girls in the video that did n't need to be there .
It was just some random guy wandering around .
It was n't great . ''
Labrinth told the story behind this song to The Sun September 24 , 2010 : `` It was influenced by the sun coming up .
I was working in my little studio in my bedroom .
My brother was sleeping in the bunk bed behind me and kept waking up saying , ` Keep it down , you 're making too much noise . '
At that time , I felt I was learning so much musically and it felt like the most perfect moment writing that track with the first rays of sun shining into the room .
People listen to it and they say it sounds like a ` eureka ! '
moment and it was . ''
This song was penned by Labrinth when he was still a teenager .
He told Digital Spy : `` When you 're growing up in music , your music grows with you - that 's why I call a lot of the songs I recorded when I was 17 or 18 ` baby pictures ' .
` Let The Sun Shine ' was a baby picture for me .
Usually my mum pulls them out once in a while and I get so embarrassed .
Some of my older tracks are making it through to the album , but a lot of them make me hang my head in shame ! ''
This started out as a Country song .
Labrinth had visited Nashville to learn all about American folk music and stagecraft .
