Stevens wrote this about searching for peace and happiness in a crazy world .
There was some speculation that much of the song was a message to Patti D'Arbanville , an actress he had been dating .
Stevens cleared this up when he spoke about the song on The Chris Isaak Hour in 2009 .
Said Stevens : `` I was trying to relate to my life .
I was at the point where it was beginning to happen and I was myself going into the world .
I 'd done my career before , and I was sort of warning myself to be careful this time around , because it was happening .
It was not me writing about somebody specific , although other people may have informed the song , but it was more about me .
It 's talking about losing touch with home and reality - home especially . ''
Maxi Priest recorded this in 1988 .
His version hit # 5 in the UK .
This was one of the songs that convinced Stevens , now known as Yusuf Islam , to release a boxed set of his songs in 2001 .
He stopped making secular music in 1979 , but came to realize that people find strength and inspiration in the songs he recorded as Cat Stevens .
In an interview with Mojo magazine June 2009 , the comment was made that lyrically this song has `` an uninhibited simplicity . ''
Stevens responded : `` It was one of those chord sequences that 's very common in Spanish music .
I turned it around and came up with that theme - which is a recurring theme in my work - which is to do with leaving , the sadness of leaving , and the anticipation of what lies beyond .
There is a criticism sometimes of my music , that it 's kind of naïve , but then again that 's exactly why people like it .
It goes back to the pure childish approach of seeing things almost for the first time .
A kid can say things like , ` Why is a cow ? '
You should n't put those words together !
But if you do , then it makes you stop and think . ''
This was a # 8 UK hit for Jimmy Cliff 3 months before Stevens released his version .
Cliff explained to Mojo magazine July 2012 that Stevens produced his cover .
`` I felt an affinity with Cat Stevens , '' he said .
`` They tried to market him as a rock act and like me , he was more than that and one day I went to the publisher and he played me this demo of ` Wild World ' and he told me that Steve -LRB- Cat 's real name -RRB- had written it but he did n't like it .
I loved it right away so he called up Steve and put me on the phone to him .
Steve asked what my key was , I said and he started playing guitar down the phone , He said we have to record it together so he went in and did the track and I went in the following day , helped put on the backing voices with Doris Troy and then it was time to put my voice on and Steve directed me to sing the high notes .
He was a really good producer and it was a big hit . ''
This was released as a single only in the US .
Stevens ' European label , Island Records , wanted to encourage people to buy the albums rather than the 45s .
This was Stevens ' first song to chart in the US .
Stevens that this is , `` a song about me . ''
