This Runners-produced song is the first US single by 21-year-old British singer Rita Ora , who is of Kosovo-Albanian descent .
During her early teens Ora attended the Sylvia Young Theatre School in London , whose other notable alumni include Emma Bunton of the Spice Girls and Amy Winehouse .
Ora was signed by Jay-Z to his Roc Nation label in 2009 after his A&R brought her stand out appeal to his attention and the following year she made a cameo appearance in the video for her boss 's single , `` Young Forever . ''
When Ora visited Clear Channel with Hova to present music and videos from her debut release , the executives were so enthused by what they heard that they organised the song to be immediately premiered on DJ JJ 's afternoon show on New York 's top hit music station WHTZ -LRB- Z100 -RRB- .
Ora explained in her official bio that this drinking anthem covers that moment when you `` wake up in the morning and want to take another whisky shot . ''
Ora explained to the UK newspaper The Sun why she borrowed from Biggie 's track .
`` I 'm a big Notorious B.I.G. fan , '' she said .
`` Party And Bulls -- t was one of the first rap songs I heard .
And I loved what that song represented about having a great time so I turned it into a pop song -- a great summer jam .
It 's a song that reminds me of barbecues and having a beer , sat in the sunshine . ''
A Roc Nation rep said the song was `` loosely inspired '' by the Notorious B.I.G. 's 1993 track '' `` Party and Bulls -- t , '' which is used as part of its hook .
Jay was good friends with the late rapper , so it 's no surprise to see the borrowing of some of his classic lines .
The video was shot in Coney Island , New York and directed by Marc Klasfeld .
Asked by MTV News how the visual matches the sentiment of the song , Ora explained : `` It 's basically a big party with no judgement .
So there 's a whole bunch of people in there , from a guy who 's got knickers on and who 's colored in paint on his chest to an old man kind of shaking his hips around .
It 's definitely -LSB- about embracing -RSB- anyone who wants to come to a party . ''
The song entered the UK singles chart at # 1 , making it a hat-trick of chart-toppers for Ora with her first three releases .
It followed her collaboration with DJ Fresh , `` Hot Right Now , '' and her debut solo single , `` R.I.P. . ''
