The first single from singer-songwriter Gavin Degraw 's third album , Sweeter was a collaboration with One Republic 's lead singer and songwriter for hire Ryan Tedder .
The pair initially met when they performed on the same bill and the two , both groove-minded piano players , decided to write together .
This is one of two songs McGraw co-wrote with Tedder for the LP .
DeGraw expanded on the song to AOL Music : `` It 's kind of riding that line between vulnerability and pride .
You 're saying ` If I saw you , even though I 'm missing you , I would n't tell you I was missing you . '
That may or may not be a masculine trait , but I do know it 's prideful and vulnerable .
I 've been there , so that 's why I got behind the song , and I know a lot of people have been there too , it 's just real .
You do n't always have to be romantic - sometimes it 's important to just be real . ''
DeGraw told Gibson.com the story of the song .
Here 's what he said : `` I was hanging with Ryan Tedder from OneRepublic , and he and I first got together when we were both going in and out of Nashville .
We sat down together one day and wrote this track called ` Sweeter , ' which is the title track , at this great studio called Blackbird in Nashville .
The vibe was so good that after we wrote ` Sweeter , ' we said , ` Let 's do another one ! '
A few weeks later , I went out to Denver where Ryan had built a studio , and he played me this little piano riff .
I was like , ' I like that ! '
He was like , ` It 's for you .
I love that melody and rhythm . '
So , a couple days later , the song was finished .
It really wrote itself . ''
The song poignantly evokes the difficulty of getting over someone . ''
` Not Over You ' is about trying to get past someone emotionally , '' DeGraw explained to AOL Music .
`` You create this scenario - you see them in your dreams and if you bumped into them , you would let them know that you 're doing fine and you 're past the breakup - but you 'd be lying . ''
DeGraw 's love interest in the song 's music video is played by the English actress Emilia Clarke .
She is best known for the role of exiled princess Daenerys Targaryen , who is forced to marry warrior Khal Drogo in the HBO medieval-fantasy series Game of Thrones .
