One of the angriest tracks P.O.D. has recorded , this is the last song on the group 's 2012 album Murdered Love , which came after a hiatus for the band , whose previous album , When Angels & Serpents Dance , was released in 2008 .
Lead singer Sonny Sandoval , who wrote the lyrics , said in his Songfacts interview : `` It was actually one of the first demos that we had done and got to our management .
It 's just a heavy song by nature , and it 's from me in the whole hiatus period .
I 've been involved in a lot of charity and outreach type work , and I 'm always hanging out with young people and being able to sneak into their lives .
You hang around with these teenage kids , and it 's a scary place .
There are a lot of suicidal kids .
Kids that are cutting themselves , they 're so confused , whether they 've been hurt physically , sexually , or are lost in the cultish religions , there 's just so much stuff.Me being up close and personal with these kids , that 's what came out in that song .
I 'm a man of faith and I 'm a follower and a believer of Jesus Christ , and in talking to these kids , and even in talking to people just throughout my career in P.O.D. , a lot of these bands and athletes and all these people that you meet , they do n't have a problem with Jesus .
They have a problem with people that are religious and claim to know Jesus , but are n't living it or acting it and are n't loving the way Jesus did.In my faith , if I believe that Jesus paid for the sins of the world , and I 'm all these things , this is what 's going on in the real world , and do you still love someone like me ?
And even though I know you do , and I believe in you , I believe in your forgiveness and your grace and your mercy , there 's still so much confusion around me that everybody 's getting in the way and trying to take your place .
Everything gets in my way from seeing who Jesus was . ''
The song 's chorus originally raised a few eyebrows with its insertion of the f-word .
The unedited version goes , `` They say you are the cursed man , the one who hangs from this tree .
I know this is the one and only Son of God but tell me , who the f -- is he ? ''
Whilst the version released to the Christian market omits this song , the mainstream version includes it , but with the f-bomb bleeped out .
Sonny Sandoval told us , `` It 's like , wow , all the things that are said , every single lyric in each verse and the content and self righteous Christians want to focus on the fact that I said the F word .
It 's absolutely pathetic .
And I knew it would happen.We had that song for almost a year , and I did n't take it lightly .
I 'd been praying on it for over a year .
I 'd actually took counsel and let people hear it .
And it was 50/50 .
Some people are like , you know what , go for it .
Because my heart is like , I do n't write music for Christians .
I do n't write music for people that I believe are saved and going to heaven .
If it 's a breath of you and encourages you and gives you a sense of power to go balls out for what you believe in , then by all means .
But ultimately we 're trying to reach people fed up with religion that are sick and tired of it , and people that are in the real world that really are lost and confused.Our music has always been a tool to bring hope to those people .
I 'm sorry we ca n't please everybody in the church , but ultimately in our faith , I believe you 're taken care of .
There are a lot of people that live in the real world that are out on the streets , that are prostituting themselves , that are being sexually abused , that are being murdered and killed , and it 's an evil world .
And sometimes you 've got to just give them the truth flat out .
And it might offend some people .
Might offend a lot of people .
But at the end of the day , if they understand it and they get it , and they allow God to speak straight into their soul , then I think it 's worth the slap on the hand . ''
-LRB- Here 's our full Sonny Sandoval interview . -RRB-
