This is the lead single by the American Rock band , OneRepublic , from their third album .
The song premiered online on July 28 , 2012 and was performed for the first time on the August 10 , 2012 edition of Good Morning America .
It was released for digital download on August 27 , 2012 .
The uplifting video was filmed in a redwood forest near San Francisco , between July 31 , and August 2 , 2012 .
The song was inspired by another Native track , `` What You Wanted , '' which singer-keyboardist Ryan Tedder described to The Toronto Sun as , `` Kind of the backbone of the album . ''
He explained : `` It was like , ` Wow , we 've never done anything that sounds like this and I do n't know anything that sounds like this .
Let 's go here . '
So the very next thing , like two days later , I think , we walked into the studio .
We had one night to kill .
-LRB- Bassist-cellist Brent Kutzle -RRB- got on this old analog keyboard and I got on drums and he just started playing .
And we were both like , ` This is kind of cool . '
And we recorded it and ended up knocking out about 90 seconds worth of a song .
And in my mind that 's all you need to know if a song is good or not .
If you 've not convinced yourself that you have something great after 90 seconds no one else is going to be . ''
The song was inspired by children in remote villages who are in need of life-saving care .
Part of the sales of the single were donated to Save the Children 's Every Beat Matters campaign to support training frontline health workers around the world .
According to the organization 's website , when writing the song , Tedder drew on recordings of children 's heartbeats for inspiration .
Guitarist Zach Filkins commented to AOL Music regarding the song 's meaning : `` I think the thing about ` Feel Again ' is the concept of coming back to life a little bit , not being so numb , you know ?
To slow down a little bit and feel again .
It 's such a universal concept .
It 's something that we all need to do .
Get back to being in the moment ... It 's where our heads are at right now . ''
