The lead single for Black Out the Sun , this was one of the final songs recorded for the album .
Its origins were in a riff left over from sessions for Sevendust 's previous disc , 2010 's Cold Day Memory .
In our interview with lead singer Lajon Witherspoon , he explained : `` We listened to it , and it was so easy for us to record , because we were in the studio from 12 noon to 12 midnight , and we had two rooms where we could jam .
And just by listening to it for a few minutes , we were able to get on the instruments and we started jamming it .
And then ` Decay ' came out .
That was one of the last songs we wrote on the album , but it turned out to be the first single .
We could n't believe it .
It was like , wow , that 's weird .
But cool . ''
Sevendust guitarist John Connolly recalled to Jam Magazine how after finishing up the mixing stages on Black Out , the band thought it was completed .
However , someone pulled out the tape of this song 's demo from a backlog of the music they had and played it .
`` We all heard it and thought , ` What 's that ? '
, '' remembered Connolly .
`` This riff on there really kicked our ass , so collectively we thought it would probably take us 30 minutes to get the whole song worked out .
So we went ahead and got the music going then wrote lyrics to it .
We figured the tune would at least be a good B-side tune , or maybe even a bonus track on the CD .
Half-way through the recording of the vocals , Lajon -LRB- Witherspoon , vocals -RRB- is just smiling like crazy .
I asked him what 's up , and he said , `` This song is a monster ! ''
That was one of those `` stop the presses '' moments .
I had been thinking the very same thing that the tune should be a single on our album . ''
Revolver magazine asked the band about the songwriting approach for Black Out The Sun .
Guitarist Clint Lowery replied : `` It usually comes from an idea or a riff that John or I start .
It 's us coming up with beats and constructing the skeletal idea of the song from there .
Then we 'd get the band together to play it with everyone .
By that point we 'd start arranging it , and vocals are the last thing .
`` Added guitarist John Connolly : `` There was definitely no shortage of ideas .
For this record , we had a writing area behind the live drums in the studio .
Whenever someone was in the studio working on parts , any number of us would gather in this writing station and map things out right there on the spot .
This was one of those albums where on Monday ` Decay ' did n't exist and by the end of Tuesday night , it was there . ''
