Williams teamed up with his Take That bandmate Gary Barlow to write the first single from his ninth studio album , Take The Crown .
The pair also worked together on the 2010 joint single `` Shame '' as well as their Take That work .
Said Robbie about penning the track : `` Some songs take an age to write and some songs just fall out of your mouth completely formed , and you do n't have to think about it .
I do n't know why that fell out of my mouth and out of my brain at that particular time - it just did . ''
The saxophone riff that runs through the sing is based on the bass line from Norwegian producer Todd Terje 's `` Eurodans , '' which was released in 2005 on the Full Pupp label .
Terje consequently gets a songwriting credit alongside Williams and Barlow .
Williams said regarding `` Candy '' in a video uploaded to his official YouTube channel : `` There 's no other song on my album that sounds like ` Candy ' at all .
It 's a summer song very much in the similar vein as a ` Rock DJ ' and it took seconds to write .
It 's the story of a girl who thinks she 's the s -- t. . .
and I 've slept with her . ''
A number of fans have pointed out the similarities between the song and a prominent television advert for Haribo sweets .
Speaking backstage in London , where he turned on the Christmas lights Robbie laughed off the comments : `` The Haribo advert sounds like ring-a-ring of roses so it does sound like the Haribo advert , yes you ' re right , but they ca n't sue me because they also sound like a nursery rhyme from a couple of centuries ago , '' he said .
`` It was pointed out to me via YouTube when I read the comments and I was like ' oh yeah , it does does n't it ? '
but I think every song has been written now and everything sounds similar . ''
Williams worked with the Irish producer Garret ` Jacknife ' Lee on Take The Crown .
The album was mostly mixed in Lee 's Santa Monica home studio .
`` Garret -LRB- Lee -RRB- has got an amazing house up in Topanga , '' said Williams .
`` It 's out the way and got an awesome studio ... What 's the point of going to these big -LSB- studios -RSB- if you can go to a home that you enjoy being at ? ''
Williams said regarding the song 's subject matter : `` It 's a summer song about a girl who thinks she 's great .
And she might be , but she 's a bit nefarious with her ways . ''
The song 's music video was filmed in Spitalfields , East London in August 2012 .
Williams ' leading lady is played by British actress Kaya Scodelario , who is best known for her role as Effy Stonem in the E4 drama Skins and Catherine Earnshaw in the 2011 movie version of Wuthering Heights .
She has also featured in the visuals for several of Plan B 's songs including `` Stay Too Long '' and `` She Said . ''
The song was Robbie 's first solo UK # 1 hit for eight years and the 14th number one of his career , counting the Take That chart-toppers on which he participated in between 1993 and 1995 .
It meant that Williams moved move into joint second place with Gary Barlow and Cliff Richard on the list of British artists with most chart-toppers , behind only the four members of the Beatles .
Despite the song 's success , it was n't playlisted by BBC Radio 1 .
A spokesperson told The Sun : `` Radio 1 see it not as a question of age , but of relevance .
They think there are acts more appropriate to their target audience of 15-29 . ''
