American singer-songwriter Rachael Yamagata closes her third album , Chesapeake , with this track , which describes listening to a song that really moved her .
She told Magnet magazine why she decided to close the record with this cut : `` It was an obvious last song for the album , so different from the others because of the string section .
When I sequenced the record , I was thinking , ` Where am I as an artist ?
What is the album saying ?
What is the message of the album ? '
I wanted to convey the heartache of a failed relationship , and this song has a sadness and a maturity and some consciousness and guts .
I waited until the last minute trying to decide where to put it -LRB- on the album -RRB- .
I played with an order that brought it closer to the front .
It 's always been successful live , so I finally made a conscious choice to put it at the end and hope people listen to the whole record .
I think of my stuff as albums .
People say the world is changing and track-by-track is the way to go , but I envision a full-record experience .
The album is a section of your life that 's a full emotional experience , so why not present all of the flavors ? ''
Yamagata explained the song 's meaning to Artist Direct : `` I really loved that idea of the ironic sorrow of knowing yourself and getting through your own psychological challenges or hang-ups internally that may have had a lot to do with the destruction of a relationship .
You 're bringing something to the table that 's influencing a relationship in a negative way , but it 's more your own .
The song is about getting to a place where you 've finally got it sorted out and you 're so excited .
You 're sorrowful though because it 's too late and it had the effect on the relationship .
On the one hand , you feel positive because you 've sorted through your own stuff .
On the other hand , who cares ?
None of it is worth anything because you 've lost the one person you feel for so deeply .
I 've been through that .
I 've also watched that on the other side in a relationship thinking , ` God , if you could just sort this stuff out , we 'd be so good . '
I thought that was an interesting idea . ''
Yamagata co-wrote this with American singer-songwriter Mike Viola , who is best known as the leader of the Candy Butchers , a pop-rock band from New York City that recorded three critically acclaimed albums for Sony in 1990s .
