Christian rock band Building 429 's seventh studio album , Listen To The Sound , was released on May 10 , 2011 through Provident Music Group and its title track was released as the disc 's lead single .
The band 's guitarist/vocalist Jason Roy is also a pastor at the Grace Community Church in Clarksville , Tennessee .
He told us about the song : '' ` Listen to the Sound ' actually was written , as most of the songs on this record were written , out of my small group , literally just kind of walking through daily life with my own people .
I was getting ready to write this record , I ran into some people at church who made major , major mistakes in their lives , but people who , on the outside , seem to have everything together.To be honest , when you 're on the road as much as we were , and busy as much as we are , you do n't get to really get into the real details of life .
You kind of just get by and say , ` God is good .
May he bless you and keep you .
We 'll see you next time . '
But as a worship pastor , I 'm in the middle of real life with real people every single day .
So I got into a place where I was with these people , and their marriage began to fall apart .
It was because of some sin issues in their lives .
I remember getting really mad as one of the pastors going , ` Now , what 's the deal with this ?
I do n't understand why they would do something that dumb . '
And my pastor was like , ` Jason , you 're not that much different from them .
One choice takes you just a degree off the straight and narrow path , and before you know it , you 're way off and you have no idea how to get back . '
What occurred to me was that he was right , what I had missed was the fact that it 's just one decision that leads to another .
And so every single day it 's a war to hold into this faith that we desperately need . ''
Regarding why Building 429 named the album after this song , Jason Roy explained : `` It 's the title track of the record for many reasons .
It 's a catchy little tune , but it also embodies the thought process of the record in many ways .
This record is realistic , yet hopeful , honest , yet fun , and if there was one phrase that we felt brought the most hope in our current lives , it was the title of this song .
Why listen to the sound ?
Because most of us are so busy talking , social networking , and working that we have lost the ability to hear the voice of God .
Not because He 's not talking , but maybe because we just do n't shut up long enough to hear what he has to say .
Economic downturns have put our world into a frenzied pace that leaves little time for solitude and listening .
But if we could stop for just 15 minutes , slow down and listen , maybe we would be able to hear the voice of God saying , ` my grace is sufficient for you . '
Is n't that just the thing we need ?
All of our hard work and building a better life for the last 20 years brought us to ... economic crisis ?
Are n't we the wealthiest country in the world ?
Is n't there an American dream out there ?
It 's interesting that even with all of our prosperity we still want more .
There 's a line in this song that God blessed me with that I think is HUGE .
It says : You 'll never know what faith is , till you do n't understandSometimes it takes the silence to finally hear HIS planSo listen to the sound of Hope that 's risingThat 's what this record is about . ''
Parts of the spiritual `` Amazing Grace '' are integrated into this song .
Jason Roy told us why : `` What I really was thinking about more than anything else on ` Listen to the Sound ' was the fact that all the mistakes that I 've made in my lifetime , the beautiful thing was that God , every single time , is always faithful to say , ` This is home .
This is hope .
This is it .
Right here in my arms . '
And to me there is no greater hope in the world than ` Amazing Grace , ' right ?
I mean , that 's the song that , for the rest of time , will be a song that people rest in when everything falls apart .
So it really made sense to tie the two things together and that 's why ` Listen to the Sound ' was written the way it was . ''
Building 429 's name is derived from the New Testament book of Ephesians 4:29 : `` Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths , but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs , that it may benefit those who listen '' .
-LRB- NIV version -RRB-
