This is an autobiographical song about John Lennon 's life .
He wrote most of the lyrics after being asked why a book he wrote , In His Own Write , revealed more about him than his songs did .
The Beatles left a hole for the instrumental break when they recorded this .
Producer George Martin filled it in the next morning by playing a piano solo and speeding up the tape to make it sound like a harpsichord .
Lennon had asked him to fill it with something `` baroque . ''
Both Lennon and McCartney thought this was one of the best Beatles songs .
This was voted the best song of all time by a panel of songwriters in a 2000 Mojo magazine poll .
The panelists included McCartney , Brian Wilson , Lamont Dozier , and Carole King .
Judy Collins , Ozzy Osbourne and Johnny Cash have all covered this .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The music was inspired by The Temptations song `` You 've Really Got A Hold On Me . ''
In an interview with Lennon in the January 1971 edition of Rolling Stone , Lennon recalled the writing of this song : `` I wrote that in Kenwood -LRB- his home at the time -RRB- .
I used to write upstairs where I had about ten Brunell tape recorders all linked up , I still have them , I 'd mastered them over the period of a year or two - I could never make a rock and roll record but I could make some far out stuff on it .
I wrote it upstairs , that was one where I wrote the lyrics first and then sang it . ''
He added that was usually the case with songs such as this one and `` Across the Universe '' and `` some of the ones that stand out a bit . ''
The lyrics about friends refer to Stu Sutcliffe , an early Beatle and great friend of John 's who died in 1962 , and another friend named Pete Shotton .
Lennon also thought of his Aunt Mimi and wife Cynthia , as well as other friends .
One of the most beautiful Beatles songs , John called it `` A little piece of art work . ''
This was one of George Harrison 's favorites .
The other Beatles were not pleased when he played it with different lyrics at one of his concerts in 1974 .
There is controversy over how involved McCartney was in writing this .
Lennon claimed in later interviews that he wrote the whole thing , while McCartney claimed it was an equal collaboration .
Dave Matthews played this at the 2001 special Come Together : A Night For John Lennon 's Words And Music .
The song took on new meaning , as the show aired 3 weeks after the terrorist attacks on America .
According to John Lennon : The Life and Legend -LRB- The Sunday Times : A Special Tribute 1980 -RRB- , Lennon began writing this in 1964 .
He forgot about the song for a while and he wrote it again one year later , with lyrics talking about people from his childhood and younger years .
In John 's original handwritten lyrics he made reference to several places in Liverpool : `` Penny Lane is one I 'm missingUp Church Rd to the clocktowerIn the circle of the abbeyI have seen some happy hours.Past the tramsheds with no tramsOn the 5 bus into townPast the Dutch and St. ColumbusTo the Dockers Umbrella that they pilled down .
`` The Dockers Umbrella was the world 's first overhead railway -LRB- opened 1893 -RRB- .
St. Columbus could refer to a school the bus passes .
-LRB- thanks , ian - norwich , England -RRB- This song was played at Kurt Cobain 's funeral .
The Beatles were an early and important music influence on him .
Cobain even cited Lennon as his `` idol '' in the various journals he kept throughout his career with Nirvana .
-LRB- thanks , Ashlynd - Charleston , WV -RRB- In a sign that Sarah McLachlan 's `` I Will Remember You '' is not somehow mandated as the background music for any death montage , James Taylor performed `` In My Life '' at the 2010 Oscars when they showed who died in the past year .
Rests in the music were filled with dialogue from film clips .
-LRB- thanks , Breanna - Henderson , NV -RRB-
