This club banger is the lead single from the expanded version of Lady Gaga 's debut album , The Fame : Monster .
Lyrically the song celebrates the kind of lusty passion and desire found in a bad romance novel .
Moroccan/Swedish producer RedOne helmed the song and wrote it with GaGa .
He also collaborated with Lady Gaga on her smash hits `` Just Dance , '' `` Lovegame '' and `` Poker Face . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Francis Lawrence , who 's helmed clips for the likes of Britney Spears , Janet Jackson and Gwen Stefani .
Lady Gaga told MTV News that she knew she wanted to work with Lawrence : `` It was collaborative .
He 's a really pop video director and a filmmaker .
He did I Am Legend and I 'm a huge Will Smith fan , so I knew he could execute the video in a way that I could give him all my weirdest , most psychotic ideas , '' she said .
`` But it would come across to and be relevant to the public . ''
When this reached # 1 in the UK , Lady Gaga became the first solo female artist to have three chart-toppers in a calendar year .
A congratulary ra ra to Lady Gaga is in order as when this song climbed to the top of Billboard 's Top 40 Airplay Chart dated January 17 , 2010 , the New York hitmaker became the first artist in the tally 's 17-year history to send her first five singles to the # 1 spot .
Said Gaga to Billboard magazine , `` Just six months ago , ` Bad Romance ' was nothing but a dream , a recurring melody , a lyric hidden on a napkin on my tour bus .
Now , it 's my fifth # 1 record , and a reminder to fans to always follow their dreams .
I would like to thank all my beautiful little monsters and my incredibly supportive team for the most memorable year of my life .
To have had such a phenomenal reception to my second album , The Fame Monster , is life-changing .
I 'm so happy I could die . ''
The song 's promo received ten nominations at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards , tying with Peter Gabriel 's `` Sledgehammer '' for the record of most nominations for a single video .
It went on to win seven of the categories including the prestigious Video of the Year award .
This was the top-selling single of 2010 in Europe , according to the Billboard European Hot 100 .
Runner up was Ke $ ha 's `` TiK ToK '' and in third place was the Black Eyed Peas ' `` Meet Me Halfway . ''
This was a 2010 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
Gaga performed her song `` Born This Way '' at the ceremony , where The Fame Monster also won for Best Pop Vocal Album .
At Bill Clinton 's 65th birthday celebration held at the Hollywood Bowl on October 15 , 2011 , Lady Gaga performed a special version of this song for the former president reworked as `` Bill Romance . ''
Gaga then told him , `` If someone had told me so many years ago I 'd be doing that right in front of you ... I would have given them a good American ` F -- k you . ' ''
Lady Gaga debuted part of this song on the October 2 , 2009 edition of Saturday Night Live .
The full version was unveiled four days later at the finale of fashion designer Alexander McQueen 's Spring/Summer 2010 Paris Fashion Week runway show .
Gaga told Rolling Stone that The Fame : Monster is not about cashing in on a successful album .
She said : `` I think re-releases are unfair .
It 's artists sneaking singles onto an already finished piece of work in an effort to keep the album afloat .
Originally -LSB- my label -RSB- only wanted me to put out three songs and now it 's much more than that .
It 's a new album 's worth of material . ''
The clip features Gaga with some razor-blade sunglasses .
She explained to MTV News : `` I wanted to design a pair for some of the toughest chicks and some of my girlfriends - do n't do this at home !
- they used to keep razor blades in the side of their mouths .
That tough female sprit is something that I want to project .
It 's meant to be , ` This is my shield , this is my weapon , this is my inner sense of fame , this is my monster . ' ''
There 's a healthy bit of gibberish in the lyrics -LRB- `` Roma Roma-ma '' -RRB- , as well as some French .
The French part is : `` Je veux ton amour et je veux ta revanche , '' which translates to `` I want your love and I want your revenge . ''
In the video Gaga 's eyes were digitally altered to make them look bigger and bolder .
Several Asian contact lens companies manufacture a product known as ` circle lenses , ' which covers part of the white area in the eyes to make the pupil look larger .
Encouraged by Gaga 's wide-eyed look , American teenagers flocked to buy these lenses online in the aftermath of the clip 's release , despite opticians warning that the lack of quality control could lead to problems like eye infections , damage to vision , and even loss of sight .
This won Best Song at the 2010 MTV European Music Awards .
The singer also won the trophies for Best Pop and Best Female at the ceremony .
The Fame Monster was the best-selling album of 2010 worldwide .
The extended version of Gaga 's 2008 debut The Fame scored 5.8 million sales around the world in 2010 , finishing ahead of Eminem 's Recovery , which came in second with sales of 5.7 million and Justin Bieber was in third place with combined sales of My World and My World 2 totalling 5.7 million .
Music licensing company PPL announced that this song had the most plays on radio and in public places in the UK in 2010 .
In second place was Eminem 's `` Empire State of Mind and in third another Gaga tune , Alejandro . ''
