This features Betty Wright .
Angie Stone explained to the Associated Press how she came to work with the soul and R&B singer .
`` She was actually in L.A. at the time I was recording the album .
She walked in the room to hang out and see what I was doing .
And the rest was history .
It was honestly something that just happened . ''
This is the first album Angie Stone recorded on her new record label , Stax , after splitting from J Records .
In the November 1 , 2007 edition of Clutch Magazine , Angie Stone explains how the storyline of the video for this song was altered due to budget constraints : `` The way that it was supposed to be was , you 're supposed to see the part where the crowd laughs at him , they see that it was really me that beat the guy up -LSB- in the video -RSB- .
You 're supposed to see the girl let him know it 's a wrap , it 's over , and then she was supposed to come to my house to apologize and give me a check to reward me .
He was supposed to be sitting outside in the rain , begging me to let him back in .
And when that does n't work , then he knocks on the door and brings me the milk , and I let him back in .
But that did n't work because we were running late and over budget.I guess the crux of it is once he got busted , -LSB- the video -RSB- tries to show you that when you got nothing , you come back to old reliable .
And we do n't want to be that easy .
Or that desperate .
It was cute , but it would have been better if we would have gotten all those scenes in with him crawling back . ''
In Essence magazine , Stone discusses the reason for the album 's title : `` For me , it 's extremely personal because I was seriously contemplating leaving the secular set and going straight to Gospel music because I was tired of my situation at J Records .
I love Clive Davis , but it had gotten to the point where the label had become overcrowded and I became that go-to person for all their new artists .
Anyone who knows me knows that I 'm happy to work with anyone , but I would have had a lot more respect if they had said , ` We really want your expertise and let 's do a contract with you to work with these artists . '
Shy of being an insult , they allowed me to leave and then asked me to do the same thing that I was doing when I was there .
I just felt like I was in a transition with the label and was n't receiving the support and marketing I needed for my project .
Yes , everyone loves Angie but that does n't equate to record sales .
They were not taking the same measures that they would for their other artists . ''
