Chevelle debuted this Sci-Fi Crimes track on April 9 , 2009 at a concert in Atlanta , Georgia .
This song is about a personal experience for the band when their equipment was stolen in Dallas .
They recovered just over half of it , including Loeffler 's prized red PRS guitar , which was returned by a man in California to PRS after he learno it was the frontman 's .
Drummer Sam Loeffler told the USA publication Muen Magazine about the incident : `` We recovered about half of it or maybe a little bit more .
The stuff that came through was from people who said ` Hey , I know who this belongs to . '
and they called somebody and let them know .
It worked out really well .
There are two sides to it .
There were a lot of people who wrote to us and said ` You guys are a bunch of pansies .
Open up your wallets and buy some new gear .
You guys are millionaires . '
That is not true and even if it were true , it is still personal items that we have done all these records with .
They have sentimental value and no matter how much money someone has , it does n't give people the right to steal from them .
That 's ignorant and that 's how people hide behind the internet .
The good news is that some things did show up in pawn shops , eBay and people let us know .
We were able to either get the cops to get it back for us or we were able to buy it back , which is fine too .
We are an established rock band ; we have insurance to help us pay for those things .
We lost $ 130,000 , it 's a lot of money , it 's a lot of money to me that 's for sure .
Even still , we were grateful to get back the pieces that we got back .
There were a couple of pieces that were really important to us .
One of them was this original red Paul Reed Smith guitar that we did Point # 1 and Wonder What 's Next with it and we had , had it on the road .
It was the first nice guitar that Pete had ever bought and we bought it used for $ 900 .
We had gone in half on it and it was a really important piece to us .
We got it back and a couple other guitars that were really important to us .
It was really cool . ''
Frontman Pete Loeffler described this to The Pulse of Radio as a `` sort of an old-school Smashing Pumpkins vibe rock song . ''
