This Paul Jenkins , Jason Sellers and Andy Gibson penned song is a duet with pop singer Kelly Clarkson .
Aldean explained to The Boot why he decided to hook up with the Season 1 American Idol champ : `` Michael Knox , my producer , and I had been throwing the idea around for a couple years , but it was something that I did n't want to force .
If it made sense and the right song came along , that would be cool .
If you go out looking for that perfect song for a duet , you 'll never find it .
Jason Sellers pitched that song to us , and I loved it .
The more I listened to it , the more I thought if there was ever a song that we could pull off as a duet , this was it .
It just so happened that Kelly Clarkson was available , which does n't happen all the time . ''
The song was Jason Aldean 's fifth Country Songs chart-topper and the first for Kelly Clarkson , whose previously best had been a # 2 placing for Reba McEntire 's 2007 remake of `` Because Of You '' with the maiden American Idol champ.The song 's elevation to # 1 meant Clarkson became the third Idol alumni to top the country chart following Carrie Underwood and Josh Gracin.This was the first duet between pop and country artists to reach # 1 on Country Songs since Bon Jovi and Sugarland 's Jennifer Nettles reached the summit with `` Who Says You Ca n't Go Home '' in May 2006 .
The duet was named both single record of the year and vocal event of the year at the 2012 ACM awards .
It was the first ACM award for Clarkson - `` Thank you all so much for welcoming me from the pop world , '' she told the audience .
Aldean told The Boot that recording the song with Clarkson was the easy part of their collaboration : `` When you think about a song and recording a duet , you have in mind how it will sound .
Kelly came in and we started cutting vocals on her and the first note she sang I was like , ` Oh my , this is going to be good . '
She 's an amazing singer , and she was really cool to work with .
I could n't believe how easy it was to get her to do it .
We just played her the song and she loved it .
Dealing with the record label and getting through that red tape was the worst part of making it happen . ''
The three songwriters told The Boot how when they penned this song they focused on what two people in love would actually say to each other in everyday life , rather than penning poetic , romantic lyrics.Andy Gibson : Paul had this hook , `` do n't you wan na stay , '' and right away I thought , `` Wow , that is just so simple . ''
It was n't over-the-top , flowery-emotional ... not gooey kind of romance .
It was realistic !
And we wanted to keep it that way throughout the whole song , lyrically .
We wanted to make sure it was stuff you 'd actually say in real life .
Keep the lyric real simple , yet still have that super romantic , strong emotional connection.Paul Jenkins : It was one of those things where you have the title and some semblance of the melody just pops into your head .
I do n't know where exactly it came from .
I sang what I had to Jason , and we thought , `` What if we did something like , ` you 're chocolate and I 'm peanut butter ' ... and then we had the start of the song for a minute.Jason Sellers : As writers , a lot of times something in your life happens and you write it from that .
But in this particular case , we had this title .
So we started thinking about the concept .
In our business , they want tempo , tempo all the time .
But every once in awhile , you find the right ballad .
And we just felt like this kind of sentiment might really catch a lot of people who might feel that moment of , `` Man , this is so awesome , let 's not cut this short !
Ca n't we just keep this going ?
Matter of fact , ca n't we just keep this going forever ?
`` Paul Jenkins : When you 're a songwriter , you 're always trying to break it down , say it in the most simplified way for each other in our everyday lives ... it 's just our instinct .
We 're always aiming to do that , encapsulate it in some magical way .
Right from the beginning , this is a love song .
And we tried to keep it as confessional as we could.Jason Sellers : You write a lot of songs , and sometimes the lyrics are more art-driven , in a poetic sense .
But we just wanted to write this as if someone was saying this to the other person .
Once we had a clear path , we started writing it.Andy Gibson : I remember when we were writing the second verse , and we had said earlier , `` Do n't wan na just make love , wan na make love last . ''
We came back to that and thought , `` That 's so simple and it means so much .
I do n't wan na be with you right now , I wan na be with you forever .
It 's those kind of things people hear - girls , especially - and they 'll go , `` Wow !
`` I wanted to write something like the kind of person I am - I 'm not some big party animal out looking for girls .
When I love somebody , I love them .
And I wanted this song to give that same emotion and feeling : `` I do n't want to be with anyone else .
I just want to be with you .
I do n't want to just love you and leave .
I want to be with you .
`` Paul Jenkins : There 's always going to be the crafty kind of lyric that 's got the hooks and a lot of different ways to look at the hook , and I love that too .
But people are getting more tapped into the emotion of music , and they 're looking to music to be an opiate , in some way , these days .
They want to resonate with something and feel good ... or feel something .
To me , that 's the new frontier in country music .
