Name-dropping Michael Jackson was , in part , a ploy by the Minutemen to get radio stations to notice this song .
It worked !
A whole lot of college radios played it in 1984 .
The lyric , `` If we heard mortar shells , we 'd cuss more in our songs , and cut down on guitar solos , '' is immediately followed by an extremely sarcastic guitar solo .
Watt told Flipside that he genuinely wanted Michael Jackson to sing this song : `` Say Michael Jackson says , ` Oh Mike Watt , I 'll sing one of your songs .
What do you want me to say to the world if you think music 's so powerful and important ? '
And I say , ` OK Mike sing this to them . '
I was taking myself out of the Minutemen .
When I 'm in Minutemen I kind of think no one 's listening almost .
Especially live , they ca n't hear the words hardly . ''
Watt revealed to L.A. Record that he even sent Jackson a copy of this song on cassette tape : `` I sent him a cassette of it to the management on the record cover .
I wrote him a note .
` This is a political song I think Michael Jackson should sing . '
I never got written back . ''
Watt lifted the line , `` I must look like a dork , '' from an interview with Iggy Pop in Creem magazine .
Watt told L.A. Record : `` They 'd have spiel with questions and answers and they 'd bold out a quote . '
I must look like a dork . '
I just lifted from Iggy .
I thought Iggy was a balls-out dude , The Stooges a balls-out band .
To be in that legacy , be part of a movement inspired by that band , so what if you look like a f * cking dork !
You tell people you are and you still go for it . ''
In 2003 , Pop invited Watt to play bass for the newly reunited Stooges .
Watt told Technorati that it was a great honor to play with the influential Punk band : `` It really is amazing , I would have never imagined playing with The Stooges .
They 're all great teachers to me , and I love that music . ''
This song , which Minutemen bassist and lyricist , Mike Watt , penned in a ` train of thought ' style , mocks Punk bands who express sensationalistic political statements , without necessarily understanding the logic behind their sentiments .
Double Nickels on the Dime , Minutemen 's third studio album , is widely regarded as one of the most influential records of the 1980s .
The double album , which is renowned for its expansive sound and lyrical content , was ranked at # 411 on Rolling Stone 's `` The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time '' list .
In our interview with Mike Watt , he told us that he considered Double Nickels ... to be the best record that he has ever played on .
Watt explained : `` That was definitely a hill .
That was a peak of ours .
And now looking back even more so .
But what can you do about that ?
The worst thing to do is stop trying .
So I just keep trying . ''
