The genesis of Alternative rock band Switchfoot 's first single off their eighth studio album Vice Verses was a piece that frontman Jon Foreman wrote on The Huffington Post about Dark Horses and underdogs .
After writing the essay , Foreman thought , `` well , this is actually applicable to a lot of the kids that I meet on the streets of San Diego , the homeless kids , the kids that people are writing off , saying that it 's hopeless and there 's no chance .
And yet there is a chance .
There is . ''
-LRB- Here 's our interview with Jon Foreman . -RRB-
The term `` Dark Horse '' is used to describe a little-known person or thing that emerges to prominence , frequently in a sporting context .
It was first used in horse racing to describe a racehorse that is not known to gamblers and thus is difficult to place betting odds on .
The earliest-known use of the phrase was in novelist and future Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli 's 1831 novel The Young Duke : A Moral Tale Through Gay .
He described a horse race where , `` a dark horse , which had never been thought of ... rushed past the grandstand in sweeping triumph . ''
Writing for The Huffington Post was an interesting transition for Foreman .
Speaking about how it relates to his songwriting , Foreman told us : `` It 's really hard to fit a complex idea into a 3-minute pop song .
And when you 're dealing with issues that you 're passionate about , usually they have various levels .
And within a poem , you can get around the issue of space , and in a song the same way , by simply leaving holes and alluding to what you 're talking about .
And there 's all sorts of ways to do it .
With an essay , you actually have to be a little bit more forthcoming and prove what you 're trying to say .
So to that end , the song can be a little bit more of the mystery and leave the whole thing open ended .
But there 's something really gratifying , as well , about saying exactly what you mean .
And I 've really enjoyed those essays for that reason . ''
Uses of the term `` Dark Horse '' in popular music include a 1974 single , album and tour by George Harrison named after the phrase .
The former Beatle also named his record label Dark Horse Records .
In addition , Canadian rockers Nickelback titled their 2008 album Dark Horse and the term served as the nickname of singer-songwriter Ryan Star after his appearance in the Rock Star : Supernova competition .
