This song is partially about the death of lead singer Gerard Way 's grandmother , Elena Lee Rush .
She taught Gerard how to draw , paint and sing , and she gave him his first car - the white van that appears in the original `` I 'm Not Okay -LRB- I Promise -RRB- '' video .
The song is dedicated to her , as is the CD .
She is mainly who the part `` Can you hear me ?
Are you near me ? ''
is for .
But this song also starts the concept of the CD .
A man and a woman -LRB- Helena -RRB- die in a car crash -LRB- `` When both our cars collide '' -RRB- , except the woman does n't really die , the man only thinks she has .
The man is sent to Hell .
This song is a mourning for Helena 's `` death '' by the man .
He is wishing he could see her again and is giving his last goodbyes -LRB- `` So long and goodnight '' -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , tanya - Botswana and Rhiannon - Manchester , England -RRB- In an interview with the Florida Sun-Sentinel , Way explained that Three Cheers For Sweet Revenge is a combination evil , devil-vampire story and sweet tribute to Grandma .
The whole CD was to be about revenge and this guy coming back from hell to be reunited with his love , then Elena , Way 's grandmother died , and they decided to add in tributes to her because he loved her dearly and she was the one who taught him everything he needs to know to have a good band -LRB- i.e. how to sing -RRB- .
He had no idea how it would work with the rest of the CD that was supposed to be a storyline on revenge .
`` I do n't know if it fits , '' Way says , `` but I know that 's how we had to make the record .
And it 's one of those things you just hope works in the end .
And actually , the record works so much more on a personal level not only for us but also for the people who listen to it .
-LRB- thanks , heather - Kansas City , MO -RRB- Before playing this song during their 2005 American tour , Gerard Way would tell the crowd to look up and say , `` Hey Grandma !
What 's Up ? ''
-LRB- thanks , michael - dallas , TX -RRB- Throughout the Warped Tour 2005 , Gerard introduced this song as the most important song to himself and his band .
-LRB- thanks , Greg - Bellaire , TX -RRB- In Shakespeare 's A Midsummer Nights Dream , there is a character named Helena who toward the plays ' end falls into a deep sleep .
This could coincide with the songs ' refrain , `` So long and Goodnight . ''
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Milwaukee , WI -RRB-
