Bentley wrote this song with his longtime collaborator and songwriting partner Brett Beavers and his brother Jim .
Bentley told AOL about this song : `` It 's definitely new ground for me .
Usually I write songs about hanging out with my boys , having fun drinking beers and raising hell .
But ` Beautiful World ' is more of a topical song .
What the world is , is however you perceive it to be .
If you want it to be a beautiful place , you 've got to think about it that way and then go out there and make it so .
We wrote that song and just really knew it was special . ''
Bentley performed this at the 2008 Nobel Peace Prize Concert .
He told AOL that it `` was a no-brainer '' for him to choose to sing this song , `` because it 's something that really brings people together . ''
This is a duet with Patty Griffin .
Bentley explained to CMT why he chose the singer-songwriter to accompany him on this tune : `` Patty Griffin is iconic , and there 's no other word to really describe her .
She is iconic for a lot of people - not only for me but for a lot of fans .
Her voice is one of a kind , and she 's such an important figure in the American music scene ... She 's just amazing .
And so I asked her .
My only question was whether she would do it .
Was she going to sing with a Country dude ?
But she knew I was a fan , and she said yes , and I was thrilled to have her on the record .
I think that her voice adds some weight and gravity to the whole song , to kind of keep it rooted .
It 's not just fluffy -- ` Oh , it 's a beautiful world , everything 's going to be great . '
No , there are a lot of problems , but the lyrics and her voice really help cement that sentiment . ''
In an interview with CMT Bentley explained that he wrote this song whilst his wife was pregnant with their daughter , which had a bearing on his songwriting .
He said : `` You hear people sometimes say , ` Man , I ca n't imagine bringing a child into this world .
It 's so bad . '
That 's just such a negative outlook .
You can not live your life with that viewpoint of the world .
Yes , there are a lot of things that are wrong , but it is a beautiful world , and you need to find the positive in it . ''
