The lead single from Katy Perry 's Prism album was written by the singer in collaboration with her friend Bonnie McKee and produced by Max Martin and Dr. Luke .
The same team also helped craft most of Perry 's biggest hits on Teenage Dream , the exception being `` Firework . ''
The song has hit # 1 in 15 countries and entered the top 10 in 38 charts worldwide ; it is easy to see why when looking at the fine songwriting craft on display .
Of course , as with any smash hit , the song employs a great deal of repetition to ingrain itself in the listener 's head , making it hooky and memorable ; however , the repetition suitably expresses the songs primary theme , which is one of empowerment .
The titular `` roar '' appears 16 times in the song , cleverly emphasized at the end of chorus lines -LRB- and even beginning one -RRB- to squeeze out every last bit of its sing-a-long credentials .
This makes the title almost a mantra for those who are listening for the empowerment themes -LRB- a subject Perry has tackled before , notably on her smash hit `` Firework '' -RRB- .
There is also the added payoff of the sing-along `` o-o-o-o-ar '' , a songwriting technique that , through its transcending of language , universalizes the song .
The song also piques our curiosity as it may be interpreted as a commentary on her much publicized divorce with comedian Russell Brand .
As her first release since their split , many of her fans were curious to hear how she responded musically to this development in her personal life .
Though the song 's generic similarities to previous hits like `` Firework '' show a conservative attempt to maintain her current fan base , the pop culture references to Mohammed Ali , Helen Reddy 's `` I Am Woman , '' and the Rocky movie franchise show Perry 's attempt to connect with a more mature audience .
Four words that Sylvester Stallone came up with in the early '80s permeated pop culture through the decades , landing -LRB- in very derivative fashion -RRB- in this song .
When Perry sings about having the `` eye of the tiger , '' it 's a mantra of courage and determination that Stallone 's character , Rocky Balboa , used in the 1982 movie Rocky III to defeat Mr. T 's character Clubber Lang .
Stallone saw the youth appeal in the phrase , and asked the band Survivor to write a song around the title .
The first two Rocky movies were aimed at adults , but this third one , with a fresh , contemporary theme song , gained a whole new audience primed by MTV .
Perry 's use of the phrase goes with the big-cat theme of her song , and falls under fair use ; the `` Eye Of The Tiger '' songwriters did not get writer 's credits on `` Roar . ''
This is n't the first time Perry has appropriated a distinctive hook line from a hit song - in 2010 she released `` California Gurls . ''
The song sold 557,024 downloads during its first week of release , giving Perry the biggest Digital Song sales week of her career to date , surpassing `` Firework '' with 509,000 in the last week of 2010 .
The song 's music video sees Perry in a tropical forest , much like Sheena , Queen of the Jungle .
The clip was shot over three days by Grady Hall and Mark Kudsi and filmed at the Los Angeles County Arboretum and Botanic Garden .
It co-stars actor and model Brian Nagel as her boyfriend , who meets an unfortunate end .
Perry got to work with exotic animals while filming , but there was one clear favorite .
`` Suzy the elephant cause she would n't stop eating everything ! ''
she tweeted .
A lyric video was released depicting Perry texting the lyrics of the song to her friends , while also substituting some words for emoji icons .
Producer Dillon Francis accused the Californian singer of copying on her clip .
Writing on Twitter , Francis said that the singer 's visual ripped off the ideas used in the promo for his track `` Message , '' which also showed the lyrics being unveiled via text .
However , Perry 's clip also shows her doing mundane activities such as going to the bathroom and playing with her cat .
This won both Favorite Song and Favorite Music Video at the 2014 People 's Choice Awards .
The song is a bouncy statement by Perry of moving forward into the next stage of her life after the tumultuous end of her marriage to Russell Brand .
Talking to BBC Radio 1 DJ Scott Mills , she revealed : `` It 's a bit of a self-empowering type of song .
I wrote it because I was sick of keeping all these feelings inside and not speaking up for myself , which caused a lot of resentment .
Obviously I 've been through a lot of therapy since my last record and that 's what this is about . ''
Perry 's two previous lead singles had been `` I Kissed a Girl '' and `` California Gurls . ''
`` Roar '' marked the first time she had led an album cycle with a straightforward message rather than a novelty song .
So what did Perry 's boyfriend , John Mayer , think of the song ?
Mayer told Billboard magazine that he knew it would be a success .
`` In a way you get swallowed up by it , it 's so big , '' said the singer-songwriter , adding : `` Because it 's such an incredibly big song that it does n't need you to tell anybody , while you 're eating lunch , -LSB- that -RSB- millions of people are going to be dancing on tables to that . ''
The song was criticized by some for sounding similar to Sara Bareilles ' hit tune `` Brave . ''
Bonnie McKee told Melony Torres on 102 JAMZ that any similarities were purely coincidental : `` A friend told me and I had never actually heard the song , '' she said .
`` People also forget that we did n't write it yesterday .
You know , the song was written months ago , before ` Brave ' ever came out .
There are only so many notes in an octave to work with , it 's gon na happen ... things are going to sound similar .
But it was definitely just a coincidence . ''
Perry was criticized by officials at People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals -LRB- PETA -RRB- , for featuring exotic animals in the video .
Merrilee Burke , a spokeswoman for PETA , claimed to the Daily Star that by simply having the animals on set , the singer and crew were exposing them to unnecessary stress .
`` Animals used for entertainment endure horrific cruelty and suffer from extreme confinement and violent training methods , '' she said .
`` They often become stressed and anxious when hauled around and forced into unfamiliar or frightening situations . ''
Perry released a 30-second video teaser called `` Burning Baby Blue '' for Prism showing the singer lighting her famous blue wig on fire .
The visual also revealed the August 12 , 2013 release date for the song .
