David Bowie explained to the Mail on Sunday June 29 , 2008 that this medley of three songs was originally written for his aborted musical 1984 : `` I 'd failed to obtain the theatrical rights from George Orwell 's widow for the book 1984 and having written three or more songs for it already , I did a fast about-face and recobbled the idea into Diamond Dogs : teen punks on rusty skates living on the roofs of the dystopian Hunger City ; a post-apocalyptic landscape.A centrepiece for this would-be stage production was to be ` Sweet Thing/Candidate/Sweet Thing , ' which I wrote using William Burroughs 's cut-up method .
You write down a paragraph or two describing several different subjects creating a kind of story ingredients list , I suppose , and then cut the sentences into four or five-word sections ; mix 'em up and reconnect them .
You can get some pretty interesting idea combinations like this .
You can use them as is or , if you have a craven need to not lose control , bounce off these ideas and write whole new sections.I was looking to create a profligate world that could have been inhabited by characters from Kurt Weill or John Rechy - that sort of atmosphere .
A bridge between Enid Blyton 's Beckenham and The Velvet Underground 's New York .
Without Noddy , though.I thought it evocative to wander between the melodramatic ` Sweet Thing ' croon into the dirty sound of ` Candidate ' and back again .
For no clear reason -LRB- what 's new ? -RRB-
I stopped singing this song around the mid - '70s .
Though I 've never had the patience or discipline to get down to finishing a musical theater idea other than the Rock shows I 'm known for , I know what I 'd try to produce if I did .
I 've never been keen on traditional musicals .
I find it awfully hard to suspend my disbelief when dialogue is suddenly song .
I suppose one of the few people who can make this work is Stephen Sondheim with works such as Assassins .
I much prefer through-sung pieces where there is little if any dialogue at all .
Sweeney Todd is a good example , of course .
Peter Grimes and The Turn Of The Screw , both operas by Benjamin Britten , and The Rise And Fall Of The City Of Mahagonny by Weill .
How fantastic to be able to create something like that . ''
These are listed as three separate tracks on the tracklisting of Diamond Dogs , though in reality it is a medley with `` Candidate '' splitting the two sections of `` Sweet Thing . ''
