Garrett Hedlund is an American actor whom you might recall from the film Friday Night Lights , where he appeared alongside one of his boyhood musical heroes , Tim McGraw , and from Tron : Legacy where he played Sam Flynn .
Hedlund learned to play the guitar for the role of up-and-coming singer-songwriter Beau Hutton in Country Strong , spending over four months honing his strumming and plucking skills .
He performs `` Chances Are '' in the movie , and the song also appears on the soundtrack .
According to Country Strong writer/director Shana Feste , the film 's story of a fallen Country singer seeking an industry comeback was inspired by Michael Jackson and Britney Spears ' career arcs .
`` We build these artists and celebrate them , then at the first sign of weakness , we rally around their downfall , '' she told Billboard Magazine .
`` Then we want to build them back up for a comeback .
How difficult to live life like that in public . ''
Hedlund explained in an interview with The Boot how performing the song to his dying grandfather enabled it to really connect to him on a personal level .
Said the actor : `` Nathan Chapman and Lori McKenna wrote it , and it is such a great song .
My grandpa was in the hospital and I said , ` I 'm going to come visit . '
He said , ` I 'm not making her through this one , feller . '
And I said , ` Well Grandpa , I 'm going to be there in two days . '
He said , ` Naw , I ai n't making her through this one . '
So , the next day I called and he could n't talk any more , so they put the phone on speakerphone and I sang ` Amanda ' by Waylon Jennings , because it 's my sister 's name and she meant the world to him .
I sang that once for him and once for the nurses .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- He seemed to be trying to move his lips and his eyes , and the next day I called back and I played ` Chances Are ' for him .
And as soon as it got to the point ` I 'm not the worst love that 's making , but better at the breaking , a guy like me knows how to disappear , ' he passed away .
So now he 's with me going through the journey .
For me , every time I performed the song , it made me appreciate every time I got to sing it .
Every time was meaningful . ''
