Steel Magnolia is an American Country music duo consisting of Meghan Linsey and Joshua Scott Jones who rose to fame when they won season two of CMT 's Can You Duet .
They then signed a recording contract with Big Machine Records , and released this song , which they 'd performed on the season finale of the show , as their debut single .
The song features on the soundtrack of the 2010 romantic comedy Valentine 's Day .
This song about a couple devoted to each other was penned by singer-songwriter Trent Willmon and the lead singer of the bluegrass band the SteelDrivers , Chris Stapleton .
Willmon told AOL 's The Boot the story behind the song : `` Chris is about my favorite person to write with .
He 's the best singer in Nashville by far .
He just has a way with melodies .
It seems like whenever he starts singing , whatever words come out of his mouth sound like a song .
The title was something that just fell out of Chris ' mouth .
He picked up his old Gibson guitar that is maybe 60 years old , and he just started singing -LSB- the lyrics -RSB- .
It really did n't take long .
We wrote it in probably a couple of hours .
It was just one of those days.Originally the song was kind of a slower groove , kind of a Josh Turner-type song .
When Chris sang the song on the work-tape , it sounded great .
A couple of months had gone by , and we never demoed the song .
I started playing it for my band down in Texas because I was looking for new songs to do .
We were in Corpus Christi at soundcheck , and we worked up the song .
We had a couple of hours to kill .
Just because of the nature of my band , it ended up sounding like Los Lonely Boys and Otis Redding .
I played it out live for over a year .
When we finally went in to demo the song , I talked to Chris about being there at the demo session , but he had to be out of town .
I just cut it like my band .
Chris came back later and sang it on the demo , and it just came to life .
It was a totally different song than it was when we wrote it .
It had a really uptempo thing instead of a slow , sweet groove .
It was a fun , upbeat , R&B groove .
In the long run , it was a perfect song for Steel Magnolia . ''
When this song entered the Top 10 of the Country chart , it became the highest charting debut single for a male-female Country duet act in the 66-year history of the tally .
