Matt Scannell describes this song as `` very much a song , stylistically or lyrically , I think , that comes from a similar place as ` Everything You Want ' in terms of writing things a couple of steps back from the obvious .
And I put a lot more clouds and mist into this song than something that was very clear and crisp and obvious .
I 've been trying to create characters more , '' says the lead singer , `` because all my songs tend to be first person .
And it 's ironic that I would be talking about a song titled such as ` Save Me From Myself ' as having elements of third person narrative in it .
But the characters and the verses in it are an attempt for me to sort of illustrate these precarious situations .
One of the things that 's hard for me is I can see problems .
I can see things inside of myself that are broken .
I can see things inside of myself that are dangerous .
I can see things inside of myself that desperately need help .
And so I was trying to use characters in precarious situations to illustrate that jeopardy . ''
`` I grew up going to Cape Cod in the summer , but the ocean has always been a big part of my life , and it 's also a big part of my songwriting .
And I think there 's a real beauty to it , but there 's such a danger to it .
The sailors in the first verse , it 's really knowing that , Man , that boat should be there .
But they 're out and the storm 's coming , and if they 're out in that , then they 're not alive .
Then they did n't make it .
So I hope they 're swimming .
I hope they 're trying to get through .
And the little boy in the woods , it 's the same kind of thing .
And yet I 'm just sort of sitting there looking at it .
` Seems to me I 'm always miles away looking for my own face . '
It 's so detached , instead of doing the work , instead of going out there and finding them , I 'm off thinking thoughts .
So for me , instead of doing the work and trying to put the pieces back together and fix myself , I 'm out there .
For me , ` looking for my own face ' was just really a lyric that means it 's right in front of your eyes , and you ca n't see it . '' ''
` Happy endings all around , and still they haunt me . '
That 's the classic thing .
I aspire to be a glass-is-half-full guy , and I think largely I 'm in a much better place towards being that guy , but by nature , I think , I 'm someone who tends to see a lot of negatives . ''
`` The reason I started writing songs , is I needed to get it out .
And for me , the lyric and the chorus that I 'm most proud of is , ` Save me from myself , I ca n't relate , we 're mouth to mouth and still I suffocate . '
It 's like you have the beauty , you have the love , right in front of your face .
It 's almost the flip image for me of ` Everything You Want , ' being on the outside on ` Everything You Want , ' but here being on the inside in ` Save Me From Myself . '
You 've got that person who 's there for you , who 's breathing life into your body , and you 're rejecting it .
And whether that 's coming from within or without is almost immaterial .
And the second verse is in some ways more of the same .
The key for me about that is it 's all in my backyard .
` The bullet in the yard is slowly rusting , the bottle 's cracked , the kid 's come back , and I 'm just looking . '
It 's my backyard , and it 's all in disrepair and disarray , and there are dangerous things back there , and I 'm just watching .
The same thing with the relationship , ` The wine is on the floor , the candles flicker , your eyes fall and I 'm appalled , it 's all just cinder . '
It 's like , you could do something about it , but you do n't .
It 's a really dark song .
It 's a really dark song .
And you know when I say I try to put some hope into songs ?
This is a pretty dark song .
I do n't want to .
But sometimes , you know what ?
Sometimes it 's dark outside .
Sometimes it 's very dark inside . ''
Releasing this song as the first single from Burning The Days was certainly not central in Matt 's mind when he wrote it .
`` When I write a song , the last thing I 'm thinking about is , is this the single ?
It 's about , does this song resonate for me ?
Am I feeling this song ?
Am I proud of it ? ''
Never a fan of co-writing in the past , Matt always viewed his songwriting talent as a finite source , and worried that co-writing would somehow dilute that well .
In the 6 years between Vertical Horizon 's last album and this one , he changed his attitude - and gained a new respect for it .
`` I 've done a fairly severe about-face on the concept of collaboration , '' he confesses .
`` My hesitancy to do co-writes initially came out of a place of insecurity , I guess , is probably the easiest way to put it .
For years and years and years and years I felt this is my precious gift that 's been given to me , and I do n't want to waste it , dilute it , by working with other people .
And it was a very naïve viewpoint .
And you do n't really ever know what you 're gon na get if you do n't try it .
You do n't know what a roller coaster 's like until you get on it .
And I really had n't done it , and I was hesitant to do it .
And now what I 've realized over the years of doing more and more collaboration - I mean , I 've been writing a lot with my friend Richard Marx , and I wrote with Neil Peart for the new Vertical Horizon record , and all these Nashville collaborations that have happened - I 've learned that you walk into the room with one set of skills and you wind up walking out with more .
And whether or not the song is the greatest song in the world is almost immaterial , because you 're furthering yourself .
Even if you go in and you do n't really wind up connecting with the person , you do n't really wind up writing the greatest song , you 're able to benefit from that experience by knowing to say the right things , and to try to finesse it and move it along .
That comes from writing with people who are vastly less experienced than I am , but also writing with people who are master craftsmen and women who have years and years more experience than I do .
And I just view it as a very different thing.Now , having said that , there are certainly moments where I want to be alone when I 'm writing .
And I think fundamentally most of the songs on this -- 10 of the 11 songs on the new Vertical Horizon record are my songs that I wrote on my own .
But I think it just can be one facet to songwriting ; writing on your own .
And collaboration can just be this beautiful thing.I often look at collaboration as a volleyball match .
And you need to keep the ball in the air , which means the ideas need to go back and forth .
And when it 's not a collaboration is when the ball goes over the net and it just plunks right there in the sand , and the other person 's not bringing anything to the table .
So you try and avoid those . ''
-LRB- Check out the full interview with Matt Scannell . -RRB-
`` If I was n't stuck in my own self very often , I would try to get me out of my life , '' laughs Matt .
`` I do n't know if this is something other people feel or not -- but I 'm so hard on myself .
I can be so bad to myself , I can be so mean to myself .
With other people I try to be kind , and try to be gracious or helpful or whatever , I do n't even know .
But all of those graces that we show -- that I show to other people - are kind of vacant and missing when I 'm looking at myself .
And sometimes that 's a good thing , because you cut through the bullshit and you get right to the fundamental .
And you can get through something very quickly , because you 're cold and you 're brutal and you 're swift .
And the problem is eliminated .
This song , I think , is coming largely from a place of saying , ` You know what ?
I 'm doing the best I can .
Give me a break . ' ''
Neil Peart from Rush plays drums on this track .
Peart also played on the Burning The Days tracks `` Even Now '' and `` Welcome To The Bottom , '' and he also contributed lyrics to `` Even Now . ''
