This is the opening track from American Pop-Punk band Cobra Starship 's third album , Hot Mess .
Frontman Gabe Saporta told MTV News the story of this song : `` I used to have this boss , I had one job when I was a kid , after high school , I was working for this guy who had a company that cleaned garbage chutes in buildings .
And I do n't know how he ended up doing that , because he was a rock-and-roll dude .
He had Rod Stewart hair , and he was , like , 50 .
It was awesome .
But he was such a chauvinist pig , and I was a straight-edge punk kid , very politically correct .
Like , I would take offense if someone said something rude , which is the exact opposite of the way I am now .
But I was that kid .
And one time , he was like , `` Yeah , you treat girls like sh -- , they 'll stick to you like toilet paper . ''
And I was like , `` What ?!?! That 's f -- ed up ! ''
But I put that into the song , that he told me that .
I mean , I do n't treat girls like sh -- , but the song 's about that .
Sometimes the bad boys end up getting the girls .
We know a couple of guys who are `` too nice . ''
Like our sound guy , he 'll just meet some girl and , like , give her flowers .
`` Saporta added : `` We wear our influences proudly .
We do n't take influences from one genre .
We have Adam Ant influences in that song , like `` Goody Two Shoes '' ; there 's a Britney influence in that song ; there 's a big-band , Brian Setzer influence in the song .
It 's like this big soup we put together , stir it up and puke out some Cobra s -- t .
A bunch of babes sing on it .
One is the girl on the cover of the record .
-LSB- Cobra keytarist -RSB- Victoria -LSB- Asher -RSB- sings on it .
Cassadee Pope from Hey Monday , we added her to it on tour .
Our engineer 's girlfriend sings on there .
A bunch of other friends of his too . ''
In January 2009 the band rented a cabin in rural Pennsylvania to flesh out the songs without distractions .
This was one of the fruits from those sessions .
The woman on the album cover who also sings on this track is Bim Fernandez , a friend of the band .
