This is the first single and title track from American metal band Avenged Sevenfold ' s fifth studio album .
It 's also the first single released without the former drummer Jimmy `` The Rev '' Sullivan , who passed away on December 28 , 2009 from a drug overdose .
Mike Portnoy of Dream Theater , who is a major influence on Avenged Sevenfold , agreed to finish recording the drumming tracks for the album .
The Rev 's death hit Portnoy hard , as they both struggled with addiction , which in Portnoy 's case , was alcohol .
In our 2010 interview , Portnoy told us : `` When I see what happened to The Rev , or Paul Gray from Slipknot who just passed away , I feel horrible , because I understand the disease and how dangerous it is , and if you 're an addict or an alcoholic , like I am , the writing 's on the wall .
You ca n't live that kind of lifestyle and live a long , happy life .
You know , that lifestyle and that disease , which I have , is going to take you out .
You have two choices when you 're that deep : you either have to get sober , or inevitably end up in hospitals , institutions , death , or jail .
There 's only two roads when you 're that bad of an alcoholic or an addict .
And I saw the writing on the wall for myself ten years ago .
I have a son and a daughter who were just born back then , in the late '90s , and I saw that my alcoholism was killing me , physically , emotionally , and mentally .
And I saw what it did to some of my heroes , people like Keith Moon and John Bonham , and it scared the hell out of me .
I had to make a decision .
I wanted to live .
I wanted to be a father and a husband and be alive for my family , friends , and my band .
And that 's when I decided to get help and get sober . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Mike Portnoy . -RRB-
The album takes the listener on a dark journey .
Prior to recording Nightmare , guitarist Zacky Vengeance said that Avenged were taking inspiration from the world around them .
`` We came off of the road amidst one of the most turbulent times in history , '' he said .
`` Everything going on around us was overwhelming , frightening , frustrating and confusing .
I must confess that it was also very exciting to me .
I 'm sure you can share my sentiment .
`` Vengeance added : `` We have been focused on only one thing : writing and preparing to record what to me is our most personal and epic Avenged Sevenfold album .
The reason is the fact that everything happening around us in the entire world might be a once-in-a-lifetime source of inspiration and direction . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Wayne Isham , who has also worked with bands such as Mötley Crüe , Bon Jovi and Metallica .
Bassist Johnny Christ told Metal Underground about the clip : `` We recorded that in L.A. .
We were n't going to do a video at all , but we wanted to pay a tribute .
We had worked with director Wayne Isham before and we trusted him and he came through for us with a theme from Jacob 's Ladder .
There are things throughout the song and video that show and represent Jimmy .
We strapped M. Shadows to a gurney and shove him around and had a bunch of people playing with blood .
It 's pretty visually intriguing . ''
Lead singer M. Shadows told Rolling Stone that inspiration for this song struck on his wedding day , and when he detoured to the studio to hash out a demo , his fiancé was not pleased .
She has since forgiven him , as it helped the Nightmare album rise to # 1 in the US .
Speaking on The Pulse of Radio , M. Shadows said the following about this track : '' ` Nightmare ' is one of those songs that was the beginning of the record and it was setting us up for this big story .
Jimmy loved the lyrics so much that when he passed away , I did n't want to change them .
And I figured , if this record 's gon na be about Jimmy , I 'm not gon na change stuff he loved about it , 'cause there 's already so many songs that are about him , or with him in it , and just have to do with that whole dark side of everything we were going through . ''
Nightmare was the first Avenged Sevenfold album to top the Billboard 200 .
It marked the first album chart-topper on the Sire imprint since Depeche Mode 's Songs of Faith and Devotion in 1993 .
