Massive attack is a 3-man production team who used various vocalists on their compositions .
Shara Nelson , who also sang on their song `` Safe From Harm , '' appears on this .
They lyrics find Nelson longing for her companion , but wary because she has been hurt before .
The rhythm track is based on the bells found in the 1975 song `` Take Me To The Mardi Gras '' by Bob James , who is a Jazz composer known for combining elements of dance , funk and pop .
Another song that sampled this track is Run-D.M.C. 's `` Peter Piper . ''
The video was directed by David Lynch , who is known for his TV series Twin Peaks and movie Blue Velvet .
The video is one continuous shot filmed on West Pico Boulevard between South New Hampshire Avenue and Dewey Avenue in Los Angeles , California .
It features Nelson walking along the sidewalk , indifferent to her surroundings , which include drunks , gangs , and bikers .
The verve made a similar video for their song `` Bittersweet Symphony . ''
-LRB- thanks , ErickOverveen - Amsterdam , Netherlands -RRB- Tina Turner recorded this for her 1996 album Wildest Dreams .
This song is featured in many of the ` Best Song ' polls .
For instance the TV Channel MTV2 in the UK placed it # 1 in a poll of the best songs ever and in 2002 the New Musical Express ranked it # 10 in their list of The Top 100 Singles of All Time .
In addition both Face Magazine and Melody Maker selected this as their Single of the Year .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England -RRB- This is a very innovative song in the electronic dance -LRB- sometimes called Trip-Hop -RRB- genré .
It features a string section and various orchestral elements -LRB- the title is probably a play on the term `` Unfinished Symphony '' -RRB- , as well as samples and layers of vocals .
The male vocal is a sample of John McLaughlin from his 1975 song `` Planetary Citizen . ''
McLaughlin is a fusion guitarist who led the Mahavishnu Orchestra .
This single was released shortly after the first Gulf War started , and due to increased sensitivities , the band changed their name to `` Massive '' for a time , which is how they are listed on the single .
This was featured in the 1993 movie Sliver during a sex scene between Sharon Stone and William Baldwin .
