This song finds Fiona looking back on the insecure version of herself , ultimately promising that it will lead to a better version .
The lyric contains a few words that do n't show up in typical songs , but Fiona is n't a typical songwriter .
`` Folderol '' -LRB- in the line , `` after all the folderol '' -RRB- means events that may seem important at the time , but are pretty much meaningless in the big picture .
Apple 's co-producer on the track , Brian Kehew , told us : `` She would find in her reading interesting words or phrases and then find a way to incorporate that into some meanings she already had for a song . ''
Another example is the word `` Rubicon , '' which appears in the line `` I was on my way beyond the Rubicon . ''
The Rubicon is the point of no return - it is the name of a river in Italy famously crossed by Julius Caesar , signifying his commitment to war .
The Extraordinary Machine album - Fiona 's third - was extraordinarily difficult to record .
The first sessions were with producer Jon Brion , who produced her previous album .
Fiona was n't happy with the recordings , and neither was her record company , who brought in a new producer - Mike Elizondo - to take over .
Results were mixed , and the sessions came to an impasse when the record company tightened the strings on the budget , telling Fiona that they would have to approve the final recording of a song before they would pay for her to record another one - something she refused to do .
The album , scheduled for release in 2003 , seemed dead in 2005 -LRB- not helping matters , a version was released on the internet and widely distributed -RRB- .
This is when Brian Kehew stepped in , offering to record the unfinished songs with Fiona in his home studio , essentially starting from scratch -LRB- he would get paid on the backend with a producer credit -RRB- .
Fiona took the offer , and over the next month , they recorded the album using a simplified approach .
Kehew , unfortunately , was not involved in the mixing process .
He explained : `` I 'd written a guitar solo in two parts that answer each other for a song called ` Better Version of Me . '
I recorded it as a quick demo , because the last thing to do on the record was the solo for the song .
We spent a last day with Fiona and Mike and I in the studio , and I said , ` Here 's the two melodies , but what I want to do is break them out into , like , 60 different instruments , and each instrument will play one or two notes of the solo , and then we 'll jump to another one .
So it 'll be this real hodgepodge of two melodies played by a flute , then strings , then triangle , then synth , then bass , then guitar , then oboe , and that will complete melody number one .
And then we 'll do different instruments on melody number two .
Might be one note , might be three or four notes in a row .
And then we jump to another instrument . '
It was just a creative idea to make what sounded like two guitars , maybe like Brian May , playing two melodies against each other .
We had this whole elaborate full day of overdubbing parts to make these solos come out , and somehow in the mixing , since I was n't there , it ended up sounding like two guitars mostly playing against each other , and all these beautiful layers of weird instruments on top of each other , I ca n't really hear them .
They 're almost inaudible .
So sadly , no one was minding the store when it was mixed and they missed out on some things on the record . ''
