`` Shake My Hand '' is musically the product of the entire band , while the lyrics were penned by singer Sameer Gadhia .
Speaking to Music Obsessed , Gadhia said that the band 's songwriting process is `` deeply collaborative -LRB- every member of the band participates and has an equal voice -RRB- so , as a result ; there is a tendency for the music to precede the lyrics in many of our songs .
That being said , sometimes the vocal melody or lyrical content can help steer the arrangement in a different direction . ''
The song utilizes an upbeat alternative rock sound , while Gadhia 's lyrics are both direct and somewhat melancholy .
`` Shake My Hand '' was released on the band 's 2008 EP of the same name .
Shake My Hand was the band 's first official release , though they were n't yet using the Young the Giant moniker - at the time , the group was still named The Jakes .
However , the band retained the same lineup for the release of their 2010 full-length debut , and their breakthrough single `` Cough Syrup '' first appeared on Shake My Hand .
The EP served to establish the band 's musical presence , and received generally favorable reviews from critics , who found the band 's sound at this stage strong , though at times lacking a central identity.Sameer Gadhia , speaking of the song and the EP in general , has said that he thinks the band 's sound was more `` fractious '' at this time .
He explained that this is probably due to the fact that the band members were attending separate colleges at the time , so their songwriting process was more disconnected.There is a short video online which documents Ian Kirkpatrick producing the EP .
The song is written from a narrator 's perspective , describing events to an anonymous listener who is implied to be somebody from a previous relationship .
For the majority of the song , the narrator makes promises about how he is fine and moving on .
Twice , however - in the middle of the song and at the end - Gadhia interjects a simple `` Or , stay with me , my love . ''
Cleverly , this small addition recasts the entire song in a dramatically different light .
The boasts become empty bravado , a desperate attempt on the singer 's part to convince himself he 's content with being alone .
