`` Blood Pressure '' is about the pressures humans are constantly under in their daily lives , from the home to the religious environment .
In our interview with Mutemath drummer , Darren King , he revealed that he wrote the track 's foundations : `` That one started with me .
I wrote the ` Why ca n't you be more like your older brother ' and the chorus of ` Blood Pressure , ' but I had very few lyrics .
I do n't consider myself a lyricist .
I just try .
I 'll write pages and pages and all I 'll get from it is one little line . ''
King added that it was Mutemath front man , Paul Meany , who helped to develop the track 's religious connotations : `` Paul really elaborated on that idea and turned it into something that was not just about family pressure and pressure to live up to your parents ' expectations or to compare yourself to your siblings ' success , but it also became about the blood that the church talks about , and the pressure of living up to the verse in the bible where Jesus says , ` Greater works than me shall you do . ' ''
Darren King told us the song symbolizes the pressures he felt under while growing up as a strict Christian : `` I put a lot of self-imposed pressure to become Christ-like , literally .
And not just ask myself what Jesus would do when I get in a sticky situation , but wonder when I was finally going to raise the dead or cast the demons out of a person , or do something greater than the guy that did those things .
And that 's a lot of pressure for a 14-year-old guy to deal with .
A 14-year-old should just be worrying about his acne and treating girls with respect and good grades and being a good kid .
Instead I was thinking about when I was going to prophesize for the first time for real .
And so that 's part of that , too .
It 's that blood , as well . ''
King said it was a scandal at his local church which lead to him changing his view on life : `` Well , there was this trippy thing that happened in my church where the worship leader had got into a bit of a scandal - there was a bit of a sex scandal in my church .
And that just threw my world into a tailspin .
That happened in my senior year of high school in 1999 and 2000 .
And that was my first major depression in that regard .
I had all the expectations built up from my leadership , and I felt so confused .
I myself went through a very dark time in that .
And then I rebounded from that , again , back into a more hopeful -- again -- church-going , optimistic kid in my mid-20s , but still very different .
From that point on , I was very different .
I felt that was one step towards me being a bit more reasonable and not being so intense . ''
