This is about an incident in 1986 when CBS news anchor Dan Rather was attacked on a New York City sidewalk by a crazed man yelling `` Kenneth , what is the frequency . ''
The man turned out to be William Tager , who was caught when he killed a stagehand outside of the Today Show studios 9 years later .
Tager , who is serving a 25 year sentence , said he was convinced the media was beaming signals into his head , and that he was on a mission to determine their frequencies .
There is a song by Game Theory on their 1987 album Lolita Nation called `` Kenneth , what 's the Frequency ? ''
It was produced by Mitch Easter , who was R.E.M.s producer for Chronic Town , Murmur , and Reckoning .
Coincidence ?
-LRB- thanks , Joel - Arlington , VA -RRB- The song slows down at the end because of bassist Mike Mills .
They noticed he was in pain , but everyone followed him and finished the track .
After they were done , Mills was taken to the hospital and it was discovered he had appendicitis .
They never got back to redoing the song .
This was the first single released from the album , which indicated the harder edge that R.E.M. took on Monster , their ninth album .
After this came out , `` What 's the frequency , Kenneth '' became a catch phrase and was a running joke on The David Letterman Show .
Rather had a good sense of humor about it and later appeared on the show , singing this with R.E.M. backing him .
For a shot time , `` Kenneth '' became a term used for a clueless person .
Lead singer Michael Stipe says this is an attack on the media , who overanalyze things they do n't understand .
The line , `` Richard said , ` Withdrawal in disgust is not the same as apathy , ' '' refers to Richard Linklater , director of Slacker -LRB- 1991 -RRB- and Dazed and Confused -LRB- 1993 -RRB- .
More recently , he directed Waking Life -LRB- 2001 -RRB- .
This single was the first piece of music to be released by R.E.M. that included a lyric sheet .
The first R.E.M. album to include printed lyrics was Up , from 1999 .
