This is a track from Lonely Avenue , a collaboration album by American singer-songwriter Ben Folds and English novelist Nick Hornby .
The record contains eleven songs featuring music by Folds , lyrics by Hornby and string arrangements by influential pop string arranger Paul Buckmaster -LRB- David Bowie , Elton John , Leonard Cohen -RRB- .
The idea for Lonely Avenue was conceived during a dinner conversation between the two friends one night in 2009 .
After that , Hornby began regularly emailing lyrics to Folds , who then wrote the music .
Folds told Paste : `` I kind of ran the gamut between being as simple as I 've ever been , and sometimes having to go -LSB- Russian composer Dmitri -RSB- Shostakovich on some of them . ''
The pair 's friendship developed after Folds read a flattering essay written by Hornby regarding Folds ' tune , `` Smoke , '' from his 1997 CD Whatever and Ever Amen .
`` It centered around the lyrics a lot , which he did n't realize I did n't write , '' Folds told Reuters .
`` I sent him a thank you note and told him I did n't write it , so we had a good laugh .
That was the beginning of a real natural friendship . ''
The album , which Folds made specifically to be listened to on vinyl , was recorded on 2-inch tape .
He explained to Billboard magazine that he chose the analog recording process simply due to digital burnout .
`` It 's precisely nine years since I started working on ProTools , '' noted Folds , `` but after the experience of the last record -LRB- 2008 's Way to Normal -RRB- , I just asked myself , ` Digital recording , is that helping my records ? '
, because it was not fun .
If it 's not fun and it 's making them better , great .
But it 's not that fun , and I do n't think it 's improved -LRB- the records -RRB- .
So I 'm coming back to analog simply because I really gave digital a full go and I appreciate it , but I like rewind time and I like making choices on the fly ... and that 's what you do when you 're working with tape . ''
This touching ballad explores the conflicting emotions of a mother at her son 's hospital bedside over New Year 's Eve .
