Mann explained this song is about , `` one of my favorite topics , the crazy girlfriend . ''
She continued : `` I have a friend , who goes out with these girls who always wear short , tight dresses and high heels .
They all refer to themselves as ` spontaneous , ' which to me is code for ` I 'm crazy , and if we 're driving down the street , I might just hang out the window and yell at passers-by . '
Or if someone describes themselves as ` passionate . '
I honestly think that 's a code word for ' I will make scenes and throw s -- t at you in public places . '
The girl who seems to fun at the beginning of the night , whose hair you 're holding while she throws up at the end.There 's a certain type of guy who goes for that girl -- the caretaker , who 's very present and sober .
And these people go together .
The crazy girl ca n't flourish without the fixer . ''
Mann described the song 's alcoholic young woman protagonist to the Daily Telegraph as , `` a manic pixie dream girl : she seems up for anything , running down the street barefoot , but next thing you know she 's throwing up in your car . ''
Rather than penning straight up love songs , Mann is more interested in examining certain human interactions that rarely get written about .
`` To me , the dynamics of a situation can be applied to anything , '' she said .
`` In a love relationship , it just gets amplified , and then people get crazier about the results .
But it 's usually all the same kind of stuff , regardless of who you 're dealing with .
You think , where have I been in this situation before ?
` Crazy Town ' is more sort of about a relationship , but it could also be about a friendship , or about a guy taking care of his alcoholic mother .
You know , it is very sad to have friends who are crazy and ca n't take care of themselves .
And you ca n't get too far into it , because then you 'll be dwelling in the world of crazy , and there 's no getting out .
I can apply that to a lot of different circumstances , and the feelings behind that dynamic never change . ''
