The inspiration for this song came to Kasibian guitarist and lead songwriter Serge Pizzorno in the summer of 2009 when he found a # 20,000 bottle of antique absinthe on a German website .
He told Q magazine that it was the stuff that Hemingway and Piccaso used to drink , and though tempted , he eventually decided not to buy the vintage highly alcoholic beverage .
The previous time he drank a lot of absinthe he nearly destroyed his relationship with his veterinary assistant girlfriend , Amy .
Absinthe is a distilled , highly alcoholic beverage , which achieved great popularity as an alcoholic drink in late 19th - and early 20th-century France .
It was particularly associated with artists and writers , and may have provided a creative spark for their work .
Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec , Vincent van Gogh and Oscar Wilde were all known drinkers .
By 1915 , absinthe had been banned in the United States and in most European countries .
The song title comes from the fact that it traditionally has a natural green color and is commonly referred to in historical literature as `` la fée verte '' -LRB- the `` green fairy '' in French -RRB- .
Pizzorno explained the song 's meaning to Q magazine : That song 's about not having to deal with the real world by getting out of your mind .
It 's saying , ` you take your real world and I 'll just sit over here with me guitar and me absinthe , thanks . ''
Pizzorno described the song to Q : `` It 's a psychedelic tune about those moments when you look around and think the dream is over , and the only thing left to do is pull out the absinthe and head for oblivion .
The whole X Factor , celebrity culture thing .
Dogs in handbags . ''
The song originally appeared on the soundtrack for the 2010 William Monahan directed film London Boulevard .
The version heard in the movie is different to the one on the album .
Pizzorno told Q magazine : `` There 's a few little private jokes in that song to some of my pals .
The line , ' I met Dali in the street . '
Dali is -LRB- English comedian -RRB- Noel Fielding .
And he is the modern-day Dali .
That man is a precious jewel .
