Rumer is the performing name of Sarah Rumer Joyce , who spent the early years of her life in Pakistan , where her father was the chief-engineer of the enormous Tarbela Dam , 30 miles to the northwest of Islamabad .
The youngest of seven children , living in an expat colony without TV or newspapers , Rumer and her family would often sing and write songs together .
Her brother Rob gave Rumer her first guitar ; which she taught herself to play , and on which , years later , she wrote all the songs on her debut album , Seasons of My Soul .
Life changed when the family returned to the UK and settled in the New Forest .
Rumer 's parents separated at the age of eleven , when it emerged that her biological father was in fact the family 's Pakistani cook , with whom her mother had struck up a relationship .
She left school at 16 , and began to drift ; studying at Art College in Devon and then joining a fledgling indie rock band , La Honda .
Rumer 's breakthrough came when she met award-winning TV and musical composer Steve Brown who has written songs for Harry Hill and featured in the Alan Partridge TV show Knowing Me , Knowing You as band leader Glenn Ponder .
Brown became Rumer 's producer and together they wrote the songs that comprise Seasons of My Soul .
By the end of the song the narrator 's lover has appeared to have changed his mind about the relationship .
Rumer commented to the Nottingham Post that the lyrics reflect how men like to take things slower than women at the beginning of a relationship .
Said Rumer : `` It 's not that he does n't want it , it 's just that men tend to will you not to screw it up .
In the beginning of relationship , they desperately want the female not to overdo it , you know ?
In a way , they 're willing you not to push it .
Like saying ' I love you ' too quickly , or stuff like that . ''
Rumer explained her songwriting process in an interview with CMU : `` I work like I imagine a painter does .
I get a sense of a feeling or sentiment I want to express , and see pictures or moving images in my mind .
Then I make musical sketches with vocal and guitar , record them on tape , and live with them , building on the ideas , filling in the colours .
Then I record them again and add harmonies til there is form and structure .
Then I will share it with my producer and he usually transposes it to piano and sometimes he adds his own arrangement , sometimes not . ''
This gentle , jazz-inflicted ballad is lead single from Seasons of My Soul .
Rumer explained on her website that it 's is a stop-what-you 're - doing torch song `` about being obsessive in a new relationship .
It 's a love song , but it 's unrequited love , and the chorus has that Greek Chorus effect , advising me not to fall in love too fast . ''
Rumer explained to the Nottingham Post the Greek chorus effect of the song 's chorus : `` They 're the angels .
The Greek chorus was the PR company 's words , but actually I believe in angels .
I completely , 100 % , believe in angels .
And angels are in all my songs .
You can hear them ; you 'll hear the ` they ' in all the songs .
Their voices are all there .
And you think : where are they coming from ?
And they 're not coming from me .
They 're angels .
I know this sounds a bit funny !
-LRB- Laughs -RRB- . ''
A music video was made for the song and was added to YouTube on 28 July 2010 .
The visual was shot in a recording studio .
A second video was shot in Paris .
Rumer said of the clip : '' -LSB- The record label -RSB- wanted to do something in Paris , so we went .
Actually it was my first time in Paris .
I find it hilarious because being someone from London , it 's ridiculous I 've never been to Paris , you know ?
I always thought I was saving it for a very special man , or I was saving it for something .
And as it turns out the first time I went to Paris , and I did every cliché that you could possibly imagine -- one after the other and in the most ridiculous style .
I was driving around in this fabulous car in full makeup , styled and n the style of Barbara Streisand .
It was kind of funny . ''
