This is an autobiographical song written by singer James Allan about his absent father .
However Allan was put on the spot when this was released as a single .
He explained to The Independent newspaper February 1 , 2008 that the lyrics have had effects far beyond his control : `` What 's hard for people to understand is that I wrote that song a year ago and I do n't think you can ever estimate the value of the songs you write .
I try to put as much soul in and give myself away as much as possible , but you 're never sure if other people will like what you do .
Such a big deal has been made of it and now my family are picking up papers saying that ` Daddy 's Gone ' is about my absent father , which is something I never saw coming and never really thought about .
Some of my lyrics may upset some people who think they are about them , and I want to say to them that they are n't .
I am a songwriter and that 's what happens , but I do n't write to hurt other people 's feelings .
I could moan about how things are perceived or I could just write about things that do n't mean anything .
A lot of kids ' parents have split up and most of the time one parent will see the kid more often than the other , which leaves them with a lot of regret over the things they have missed out on .
I noticed that because my parents split up when I was younger , but all my friends ' parents broke .
It was just normal .
That 's what I was trying to say , that for me all this was a normal thing , but I realised the regret that went with it and that I did n't want to feel like that at any point in my life . ''
This was originally released as a digital download and limited edition 7 '' single in November 2007 .
The version released as a single in August 2008 has a slower tempo .
This song was written by an unemployed James Allan in a crumbling flat in Glasgow .
He jotted down the original lyrics on a job center application form and demoed it using a cheap computer , with a # 28 sound card .
Allan told the Daily Record August 5 , 2008 : `` It 's me saying I want to make things right in my life now .
I do n't want to get to a point where I am regretting things , as that regret can destroy anybody . ''
The New Musical Express named this song as the second best song of the year in a list of Best Tracks of 2007 .
