The lead single from Fight Or Flight was penned by Hoobastank frontman Doug Robb and bassist Jesse Charland .
Speaking with AntiMusic , Robb told the story of the song : `` I remember listening to the music for ` This Is Gon na Hurt , ' while sitting in my car with Jesse , '' he recalled .
`` He had written the music and I had come up with some melodic ideas and the phrase ` this is gon na hurt . '
Each time the phrase was sung it revealed something different .
` This is gon na hurt .
This is gon na hurt ME .
This is gon na hurt ME ... more than it hurts YOU . '
That 's how it originally was written out , '' continued Robb .
`` The song kind of stayed in ` limbo ' lyrically for a while because I could n't find an emotional anchor to ground the song .
Later that year we were in Bali , Indonesia playing an acoustic show .
We were exhausted from constant travel and continuous shows .
During soundcheck our frustrations came to a boil and we had a pretty epic band fight .
It was n't our first and I 'm sure it wo n't be our last .
It 's just what happens sometimes .
After the fight I remember sitting in my hotel room thinking about how difficult it would be for myself or any band member to walk away from Hoobastank .
We are truly a family and for as much as it would hurt whoever was left behind , it would hurt even more for the one who left .
I finally had a lyrical emotional starting point for ` This Is Gon na Hurt , ' and I finished the song that night in Bali .
Obviously we all talked it out and everything was fine .
During the recording of the song the lyrics got switched a little to make the song a little more ` scathing . '
and a little less ` sensitive . '
Also more to reflect a relationship between two people rather than a band .
The finished product is , ` This is gon na hurt .
This is gon na hurt you .
This is gon na hurt you more than it hurts me .
And I do n't want to hurt .
That 's why I 'm going to hurt you .
That 's why I 'm going to hurt you .
That 's how it 's going to be ! '
Unapologetic and to the point . ''
