The closing track of Mat Kearney 's fourth album , Young Love , finds the Folk-Rock singer-songwriter paying homage to his father .
Kearney revealed , `` It 's this very folk song that I wrote about my dad .
My grandpa ran an illegal gambling ring in Rochester , New York out of a cigar shop , and my father lived through that .
Then , he became a lawyer , went into the army , followed Pink Floyd through Europe and moved to Hawaii where he met my mother . ''
The song deals with the abuse Kearney 's dad and his family suffered .
`` It was really , really hard , '' Mat said about writing such an intimate song .
`` It 's not hard for me to be vulnerable on some levels , but it 's risky .
There 's the whole other world outside of just creating a song of who it affects and how it affects them that is the hard part , sometimes .
But those are songs where you 're that vulnerable and you 're that open .
You also want to feel fair , because when a song 's that literal and you 're talking about abuse and stuff like that , you do n't want to dramatize stuff just for the sake of a song .
I wanted to just tell the truth and be fair .
That was an interesting exercise for me .
I 've never really written a song that literal about people that close to me . ''
-LRB- here 's our full Mat Kearney interview . -RRB-
Bruce Sprinsteen , and in particular his 1982 Nebraska album , was a big influence on this song .
Springsteen recorded that album at his home on a small tape recorder , and the final product contains very stark , unadorned songs that tell stories of struggle .
`` When I sat down I was thinking through the mind of Springsteen , '' Kearney said .
`` I do n't do that tons , but it was fun .
On that record , I really set out to write songs that were within an arm 's reach of me story-wise , and I actually sat down and said , ` I 'm not going to write songs . '
That was my M.O. .
It was : we 're not writing songs , I 'm going to tell stories .
So when I sat down , I was messing with chords , and I started messing with my dad 's story . ''
