Lead singer and guitarist Grant Nicholas spoke to ilikemusic.com about this song that talks of change and uniting : `` Obviously it has a big anthemic trademark .
I just sat down and wrote that song .
The lyrics came at the same time as the melody , which is unusual for me .
I just really liked the line ` We are the people ' .
I 'm not sure if it is about a specific change , it 's more about inspiring change in any way .
There have been so many horrible things happening , particularly in the last three years .
That was the time that I was writing the album .
That track was clearly inspired by that time and the feelings it generated .
I have started to think about the future a bit more now because I have two little kids .
I know it sounds weird , but when you have kids you do think more about the future.That song is not meant to be a protest song , it is just meant to make people open their eyes and maybe just get on a bit more .
It is a song about change .
I suppose it is a call to arms in some ways , but not in a violent way .
It is a song that I wanted to be big and anthemic .
It was an unusual choice for a single but we felt that it represented the direction we want to take musically . ''
In the same ilikemusic.com interview , Grant Nicholas discussed his songwriting : `` I write on an acoustic .
It is usually the melody of a basic song and then some La de da lyrics , or a guide lyric .
With We Are The People , that line came as I was writing the chorus , I literally had that line , I did n't have all the lyrics .
The lyrics for that came naturally .
With some songs it can be a lot harder .
It is often with the more poppy songs that it is difficult , because the lyrics have to rhyme etc. and you are always trapped .
You try and make it cool and you are trying to tell a story .
Sometimes I do n't want it to be too abstract , although everybody gets something different from the lyrics .
That 's one of the things I like about music , that it can be open to interpretation . ''
