Last Night on Earth has a strong cinematic element , influenced by Frontman Charlie Fink 's experience directing the short film that accompanied The First Days of Spring .
`` Film is such a different writing process , it infiltrates the way I write songs , '' he explained .
`` And a lot of them I imagined as scenes - ` Tonight 's the Kind of Night ' I imagined as this guy running away from home and getting on a bus . ''
Fink was asked by Contactmusic.com , which is his favorite track on Last Night on Earth .
He replied : `` It 's a tough one because it 's like picking between your kids -LSB- laughs -RSB- .
But I 'm very proud of the lyrics of the second track on the album , ` Tonight 's The Kind Of Night , ' because it was the first song written on the album and it was the moment that I realised I was changing the style of writing , and the moment that I had found the voice of the record - a real breakthrough moment . ''
The song captures the thrill of unleashed youth and it was the first track written for Last Night on Earth .
Fink told The Sun : `` The first thing I had for the record was the lyric , ` tonight 's the kind of night where everything could change . '
But for ages I did n't have the verses for it or know where I wanted the song to go .
But then on New Year 's Eve last year I had a train ride from Wales to London .
Bob Dylan once said songs feel like looking out the window of a moving train .
And on that train ride I finished the lyrics and found the thread for the album , the limitless possibilities of the night and the freedom of that . ''
The song is an anthem of escape , although the destination is kept deliberately unspecific .
Fink told The Daily Telegraph : `` When I was 18 , I drove across the States for three months , playing my guitar at open-mic nights .
I love that feeling of being lost for days and just bearing straight on down .
It can be hard to transpose that romantic , Springsteen idea to England , because in America you can get in a car and drive into huge stretches of nothing , going nowhere .
In England , you get on the motorway , drive for three hours and you 're in Leeds or Sheffield .
But the landscape outside is irrelevant .
Sometimes just a journey from suburbia to the centre of town can be as exciting and potentially life-changing as driving off into the great unknown . ''
