Lead singer Jakob Dylan wrote this in 1988 when he was only 18 years old .
He considers it to be his first real song .
Part of the song is about some time that Jakob spent in New York City , and the things he witnessed .
-LRB- thanks , Kenya - New York , NY -RRB- Mike Campbell from Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers played the slide guitar part .
There is a connection here - Jakob 's dad , Bob Dylan , played with Tom Petty in The Traveling Wilburys .
Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers also toured with Dylan in 1986 , and Dylan helped write `` Jammin ' Me . ''
-LRB- thanks , Live Freak - Beirut , Lebanon , for above 2 -RRB- Mike Campbell told us : `` I really like the one guitar line in there , it was very George Harrison sounding and I was real proud of it when I got the sound in the studio , so I was glad they used it .
The funny thing is , later , I ran into George .
He had a real whimsical , cynical kind of thing - he looked at me and goes , ` You know , I heard that record on the radio - you 're doing me now ? '
He said it with a little chuckle . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Mike Campbell . -RRB-
Pointing out how David Fincher came to direct the video , Jakob said : `` You know , I do n't exactly remember how it happened .
He just got a tape before the record was out .
He got a preview of the record - an advance copy .
He had heard that this was going to be the new single , and he actually called us and said he was interested in doing it , if we were interested .
So we thought about it and we were like , what else have you done ... '' -LRB- thanks , Live Freak - Beirut , Lebanon , for above 2 -RRB- This was the first video and single released off of Bringing Down The Horse .
It was originally written for The Wallflowers first CD , but the record company would n't let them include it with the album .
Producer T-Bone Burnett is the one who wanted Campbell to play on this .
Campbell did n't have time to come to the studio , so Burnett sent him the tape , which had some open tracks along with the basic rhythm track .
Mike has a studio in his house , and one afternoon when he had a few hours to spare , he plugged in his guitar , came up with a few parts , doubled a couple of things , and got a sound he liked .
He sent the tape back to Burnett , and the next thing he knew , Burnett called to tell him it came out really good , and the song was on the radio with his tracks .
He never even met the guys in The Wallflowers .
The video was shot in New York City by David Fincher .
Predominantly a movie director , Fincher has directed films such as Seven , The Game , Fight Club , and the third installment of Alien .
