This string-laden song penned by Tom Douglas , Tony Lane and David Lee , is a track from Country music group Lady Antebellum 's second album , Need You Now .
LA member Hilary Scott told Billboard magazine : `` That song found us .
It was written by Tom Douglas , David Lee and Tony Lane , three of the greatest songwriters in Nashville .
The first time I heard it , it was n't even a pitch for us , it was just a friend saying , ` You need to hear this song . '
I loved it , but I did n't even think about it for us.A couple of months later we 're sitting in London , Ontario , and we 're missing this one song that could round out the record , not about a relationship per se , but something that has a bigger thematic message .
I said , ` Guys , I have something , I do n't really know if you 're going to hear it , but I know it 's a beautiful lyric and it 's a really well-written song . '
I played it for the guys and they flipped . ''
Haywood told The Boot the trio was more than pleased about the adaptation they came up with in the studio .
`` We felt so great about the arrangement we came up with , '' he noted .
`` I think that Charles -LSB- Kelley 's -RSB- ' vocal is impeccable and flawless on it .
When the album came out , everybody would ask us what 's our favorite song on the album .
It has always been ` Hello World . '
It 's an incredible song .
I 'm happy that we could be the voice to get that message out there . ''
The song talks about seeing God 's miracles in life .
AOL 's the Boot asked LA member Charles Kelley what was the last thing he saw that made him remember that God is here ?
Kelley replied : `` I can put myself in that spot , in the car , just sitting there in traffic absolutely about to explode and all of a sudden you look over and see something as innocent and cute as a child with chocolate on her face .
And you go , ' I needed that , in that moment , to relax and remind myself that life is still sweet . ' ''
Lady A 's Dave Haywood recalled to The Boot the first time Hillary Scott played this song to her bandmates : `` Hillary had this song on her iPod .
Someone had given it to her two or three years ago when she was going through a little bit of a rough time .
She was like , ` This song gave me a lot of hope during this time in my life ... It 's just something I leave on my iPod because it gives me hope when I 'm having a bad day . '
She played it for us , and it was literally a piano and -LSB- songwriter -RSB- Tom Douglas ' vocal on it .
Tom wrote the song with David Lee and Tony Lane .
It almost brought all three of us to tears .
We knew that 's the song that we were looking for .
That 's what we wanted to say and be affiliated with ... that kind of message . ''
David Lee told The Boot the story of this song : `` The idea for this song is an old one .
It was originally called , ` Hello Heart . '
I started it when I was 27 years old ... a long time ago .
I 'm 42 now !
-LRB- laughs -RRB- I wrote a chorus and pretty much most of the song a different way .
And then I put it down , turned away from it , and did n't think of it again for at least 10 years .
I got with Tony Lane , and we sat down and talked about it one day .
We tried to write it , tried to come up with some ideas and finally came up with the chorus .
But the rhymes were n't jelling .
Then we got Tom Douglas in on it .
Together , Tom and Tony helped to turn this into something that made it a great song.Tom 's great .
He was on Lady A 's , ' I Run To You . '
He actually had the idea to change this song to ` Hello World , ' because we could n't get the rhyme right .
` Hello Heart ' did n't have the feel .
Tom got a hold of it and started messing around with it on his piano .
Then he called me and said , `` Hey , what about , ` Hello World ? ' ''
He also had an idea to change the first verse.If Tom Douglas and Tony Lane had n't helped me , this song would n't be what it is , that 's for sure .
It really did turn it into something , but I had this song idea so long ago that I 'd just forgotten about it .
It 's a big ballad , the song they close their show with .
It 's really powerful .
It 's one of those kind of songs you could see being a world kind of thing : a big song .
I 'm really proud of it , and really excited about it . ''
