This was the theme song of the TV show Friends , which went on the air in 1994 and quickly became a ratings powerhouse .
The theme was written by the songwriters Allee Willis and Michael Skloff .
Says Willis : `` I had seen the pilot , and that one line -LRB- ` I 'll Be There For You ' -RRB- had been given to me by Michael Skloff , who had started on the music , and it was just supposed to be about the loyalty of friends .
That no matter how screwed up your life was , I 'll be there for you . ''
This song 's success did a great deal to help promote the show , as the constant radio play provided great , free advertising for the series .
You would think that TV producers would follow this formula and put more effort into their theme songs , but just the opposite happened : TV theme songs began disappearing as producers demanded more time for show content and did n't want to pay to create original songs .
This was the last TV theme that was made into a hit song - at least in America .
In the UK , `` Boss Of Me '' and `` Can We Fix It ? ''
made the charts .
The audience for Friends was very white , which reflected the actors and the themes of the show .
Odd then , that the woman who co-wrote the theme also wrote hits for Earth , Wind & Fire and worked on the musical adaptation of The Color Purple .
Allee Willis explains : `` It was the last thing I ever thought would be a hit , the whitest song I ever wrote .
I 'm very , very grateful for it , and when they were promoting The Color Purple , all of these newspaper reviews , I mean , here I 've written for Earth , Wind & Fire , I 've written with James Brown .
And the only song they would ever mention that I wrote is this Friends theme .
Could any song prepare you less to write The Color Purple ?
But I actually loved it , because it 's that incongruity that I cherish the most in what I do . ''
-LRB- Read more in the Allee Willis interview , and at her website : alleewillis.com . -RRB-
This was a last minute addition to the album .
It was not released as a single until long after radio stations started playing it constantly .
It boosted album sales considerably , as fans had to buy the whole album to get the song .
A dance remake by Thor-El Harrison was released on another Friends soundtrack called Friends Again , which came out in 1999 .
It is fairly rare for a TV show theme song to become a hit .
The themes usually sound great for the 30 seconds they are on the air , but make terrible full length songs .
This was an exception , as the popularity of the show exposed the theme to a mass audience that loved the incredibly catchy tune , and soon there was demand for a full-length version of the theme .
Says Willis : `` It was never , ever to this day released as a single .
It was just DJs who made a cassette of the song and just started playing it .
And it became the # 1 airplay record of the year , but the Rembrandts never wanted it out as a single because they did n't write the song .
So they kind of bit off their nose to spite their face .
At that point , the only way they could get the Rembrandts to do the record was if they got songwriting credit .
So the song needed a bridge , and it needed a second verse lyric , and they wrote that .
They do n't have credit on the theme , but they have it on the record . ''
Allee Willis was exploring social networks and innovative uses for the Internet in the early '90s , and became frustrated when the music industry refused to change , clinging to the same methods they 've always used despite the emerging technology .
She partnered with Mark Cuban and Prudence Fenton , but record companies would n't bite on their ideas .
Says Willis : `` I realized I had to get out of my publishing deal , because it was n't even fair to who I was co-writing with at that point - I would n't even hang around for the demo .
I was so uninterested in that form of music .
I was signed to Warner/Chappell at that time , who incidentally were the company that listened the least , because they had me right under their nose .
And every time I thought I had written the number of songs for my quota , they kept saying , ` Well , you may have only written the song with two people , but there are nine peoples ' names on the label . '
Because that would happen a lot when you wrote with groups .
So I owed a seventh of a song .
And they said , ` There 's this TV show , it 's on the air in 3 weeks , they just decided they want a theme song , if you write this theme song we will let you out of the deal . '
Kevin Bright , who was one of the producers of Friends had been a mentor of mine when I started directing in the early '90s , which I did n't do a lot of .
But he was the one who kind of shepherded my career .
He said to them , ` We need someone who 's very kooky , but commercial . '
And as soon as someone said the word ` kooky ' I would get the gig .
So I co-wrote that song , I wrote it very , very fast , most of the music was there but it was only a 60-second piece at that point .
I got out of the deal , and the song exploded . ''
The Rembrandts are guitar players Danny Wilde and Phil Solem .
They had some success since their first album was released in 1990 , but they are best known for this song , which is n't typical of their work .
They recorded the song because they were the only group signed to Warner Brothers who was available , and since Warner Brothers owned Friends , they made sure the theme was written by their publishing company -LRB- Warner/Chappell -RRB- and recorded by one of their artists .
This was included on the album Friends : Music From The TV Series .
There is a short version that runs 53 seconds along with the full-length version , which is 3:08 .
Random trivia about this song : In the line , `` You 're love life 's D.O.A. , '' D.O.A. stands for `` Dead On Arrival .
`` The clapping part after the first line is just 4 claps .
