This synthy Pop-Rock tune is the second single by the Nashville band Hot Chelle Rae , off their sophomore studio album , Whatever .
The song finds the quartet sharing with us some of their favorite things such out chilling out in the car with the windows down and girls taking off their clothes as the sun is so hot .
The summery tune was released somewhat out of season on October 4 , 2011 .
The band wrote the song in a garage at Grenada Hills , California before getting some additional input from ex Friday Night Boys frontman Andrew Goldstein , Evan `` Kidd '' Bogart -LRB- Beyoncé , Britney Spears , Adam Lambert -RRB- , Emanuel Kiriakou -LRB- Jason DeRulo , Selena Gomez -RRB- , Lindy Robbins -LRB- Demi Lovato , David Cook , Dan Book and Alexie Misoul .
Overstreet told Lehigh Valley Music Blog : `` It was literally probably the quickest - and longest - writing session we 've ever had .
Because we wrote the song in an hour , and then we rewrote it , like every week , I swear , for the next three months .
-LSB- Laughs -RSB- `` He continued : `` We just wanted it to be as perfect as it could and to make sure every lyric was sticky and got stuck in your head and really kind of conveyed the fun that we have in life and on tour and playing music and just kind of living . ''
The single features New Boyz , whose likes in their verse involve a `` plain crack '' party with `` girls playin ' beer pong in the back . ''
The HCR quartet linked up with the rap duo in Syracuse , NY after a radio event .
Lead guitarist Ralph Overstreet recalled to Lehigh Valley Music Blog : `` We wrote it when we knew there was going to be some kind of feature for an artist on it .
And we played with The New Boyz in a summer show up in Syracuse , N.Y. , just last spring , I guess .
And partied with them and hung out for a night .
And they were just the coolest guys ever .
And so we hit them up and were like , ` You guys want to do this ? '
They jumped on it , they killed their feature .
It was just amazing .
And then they came out to the Hollywood Palladium and did the live feature on the show we played there . ''
