The lead single from Nicole Scherzinger 's second solo studio album was written by Daniel Mercer , Morgan Jackson , Anthony Preston , Sandy Vee and Azengo.New York-based singer , songwriter and producer Daniel Mercer 's previous credits include collaborating with Pitbull on his Global Warming track , `` Outta Nowhere .
`` French music producer Sandy Vee is best known for co-producing Rihanna 's `` Only Girl -LRB- In The World -RRB- , '' which won the Best Dance Recording at the 2011 Grammy Awards .
Other hit tunes that he has contributed towards include Katy Perry 's `` Firework and Ne-Yo 's `` Beautiful Monster '' .
The song finds Scherzinger singing of a guy whom she ca n't get out of her mind and her heart keeps coming back to him like a boomerang .
Another song that uses the boomerang as a metaphor for a love that keeps returning is `` Boomerang '' by Plain White Ts .
And for a slightly less politically correct -LRB- but amusing -RRB- hit tune about the throwing tool , check out Charlie Drake 's `` My Boomerang Wo n't Come Back . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Nathalie Canguilhem and shot in November 2012 when Nicole was still on-air judging on the UK The X Factor .
Scherzinger originally unveiled an audio snippet and a video preview of the song during the December 1 , 2012 episode of the UK series The X Factor , on which she is a judge .
Want some boomerang trivia?A collection of boomerangs were found in King Tutankhamen 's tomb -LRB- 1371 - 1325 BC -RRB- in excellent condition .
Some of them were capped with gold.The boomerang was first described in detail and recorded as a `` bou-mar-rang '' in 1822There are 7 types of boomerangs , most of which do n't come back and were never intended to do so .
They are the ` returning ' , ` hunting ' , ` hook ' , ` club ' , ' U shape ' , ' Y shape ' and the ` cross ' .
The returning variety are thought to have evolved as a special form , for recreational use and for scaring birds into hunters nets.The longest time in the air for a boomerang is over 2 minutes.The largest boomerang was over 259 centimetres in length.The longest boomerang throw was of 1,401.5 feet -LRB- 427.2 meters -RRB- by David Schummy on March 15 , 2005 at Murrarie Recreation Ground , Australia .
The song is about not letting the haters get to you and overcoming obstacles .
Scherzinger told Digital Spy that she can relate to the lyrics , `` because I do n't always feel on top of the world and invincible and fierce and fearless . ''
She added : `` I have my doubts and days where I wonder if I should just throw in the towel .
This song uplifts me and gives me strength to move forward and not give up . ''
