This song is about the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the fall of communism in Germany , ending 40 years of dictatorial Communist rule .
The song also address the fall of communism in Moscow -LRB- Russia -RRB- and details the waste of time that pasted before freedom was brought to these places , the joy of democracy and emotions of the times .
Geddy Lee -LRB- from the RTB CD Launch radio broadcast -RRB- : `` It 's that horrible and wonderful moment all mixed into one when somebody realizes that they 've been , you know , had their freedom removed for so many years , and they finally get it back .
It must be such a bittersweet moment .
All those years ... all those lives that were lost and all the struggle , all the people that were fighting , all the years , and suddenly ... it 's all over .
And what do they do about all the people that did not survive , who were not lucky enough to be around when the wall fell down .
It 's an unanswerable question , but it 's certainly one to think about . ''
In the February 1994 issue of Modern Drummer , Neil Peart said he heard the drum pattern when he was in Togo : `` I was laying on a rooftop one night and heard two drummers playing in the next valley , and the rhythm stuck in my head .
When we started working on the song I realized that beat would complement it well . ''
Alex Lifeson -LRB- Guitar Player , November 1991 -RRB- : `` Occasionally we do things that are slightly out just to give a particular character to the music .
On `` Heresy '' I 'm playing my acoustics in the chorus - especially the second chorus - to get a 12-string , Byrds kind of sound .
We wanted to create the effect of a bunch of guys sitting around playing who are n't quite in tune .
You can hear it in the acoustic - particularly the -LSB- Gibson -RSB- J-55 , which has a Nashville tuning .
Of course you 're gon na get that kind of fluctuation anyway when you 're playing high up the neck , because the strings are so light . ''
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Mountlake Terrace , Washington , for all above -RRB-
