Paul McCartney wrote the music for this when he was about 15 , and used to play it when The Beatles were still known as The Quarrymen .
He put lyrics to it later in honor of his father 's 64th birthday .
John Lennon said of this : `` I would never even dream of writing a song like that . ''
This was the first song recorded for Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band .
This was a favorite of The Beatles at their early club shows , where they were required to play for hours .
When their amps overheated , they would sing this around the piano .
The title is also the name of a BBC television show starring Paul Freeman and Alun Armstrong as two older men who fall in love with each other .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France , for above 2 -RRB- In opening scenes of the 2007 musical Across The Universe , the main character , Jude , has his ticket stamped to New York by an elderly man who says that he would have left the city sooner when he was young , but he is now 64 and still working at the shipyard .
It 's a definite reference to McCartney 's song that did n't make it into the movie , which features only Beatles songs .
-LRB- thanks , Cameron Hirtle - Roseburg , OR -RRB- McCartney wrote and sang the lead vocals on this song which asks if a woman will still be with him when he got older , when he was 64 years old .
On May 17 , 2006 , Paul and his then wife , Heather Mills , separated , finalizing the divorce in 2008 .
McCartney turned 64 on June 18 , 2006 , so the answer to his musical question with regards to Mills , would be no .
George Martin arranged this in the style of a 1920 's big band , which came to be known as `` retro-rock . ''
McCartney 's vocal was sped-up a bit to add to the effect .
This was used in the Robin Williams movie The World According to Garp .
Julian Lennon , John 's son , recorded a version of this that was used in 2002 commercials for Allstate insurance .
This was not typical of Julian , who usually shied away from his father 's legacy in an effort to forge his own identity .
A reference to this song appeared in the movie Shanghai Knights , starring Jackie Chan and Owen Wilson .
In the scene where Roy O'Bannon -LRB- Wilson -RRB- is fantasizing about his future family and life with Chon Lin , he mentions his kids ' names : `` Vera , Chuck , and Dave . ''
-LRB- thanks , Brittany - Virginia -RRB-
