Stevie Nicks wrote this after her breakup with Lindsey Buckingham , the band 's guitarist and her long time boyfriend .
She wanted to make sure he would never forget about her : `` I 'll follow you down till the sound of my voice will haunt you . ''
In 2009 , she told Rolling Stone : `` It was me realizing that Lindsey was going to haunt me for the rest of my life , and he has . ''
This was supposed to appear on Fleetwood Mac 's Rumours album , but it was cut due to space limitations of vinyl .
In 2002 , it appeared where it was supposed to on the DVD-A release of Rumours .
Nicks used to check into hotels on the road under the alias `` Miss Silver Spring . ''
This was finally included in it 's rightful place on the Rumours re-issue , released in 2004 .
This is a 2-disc set which also includes a longer bonus version of the song .
-LRB- thanks , Sarah - Guess , Canada -RRB- Nicks got the idea for the title when she saw a sign for Silver Spring , Maryland while driving with Lindsey .
The name was , to her , so beautiful that she wrote it into the song .
This was used as the B-side of the singles `` Go Your Own Way '' and `` Do n't Stop . ''
It did n't appear on an album until their 1992 The Chain box set .
It was also released on their 2002 greatest hits album .
-LRB- thanks , Chris - Garner , NC , for all above -RRB- This was bumped off the Rumors album by another song Nicks wrote called `` I Do n't Want To Know , '' which the rest of the band liked better and fit better on the album because it was shorter .
Stevie was very upset with the decision and considered refusing to sing `` I Do n't Want To Know '' in protest .
During this song 's performance on Fleetwood Mac 's 1994 DVD The Dance , halfway through the song while singing , Stevie turns towards Lindsay and appears to be singing directly to him .
It was as if she was reminding him who the song was about .
Once they locked eyes , you could see and feel the emotions they must have felt many years ago when they dated and eventually broke up .
A very intense moment .
-LRB- thanks , Dave - Philly , PA -RRB-
