This song is about a little girl named Alyssa who hides her bruises .
She is being abused at home and her friend tells her dad .
The next day at school Alyssa is n't there because she was killed by injuries she had sustained .
-LRB- thanks , Alyssa - Toledo , OH -RRB- `` My dad was a very strict person , '' explains Jason .
`` Now , was it to the point of Alyssa ?
No .
But my dad was a preacher , so I saw some of the families that he helped that went through abuse and that kind of stuff .
And then , after I saw it on TV , I knew that somebody was wanting me to write about it . ''
-LRB- check out our interview with Jason Michael Carroll -RRB- For Jason Michael Carroll , songwriting is an almost spiritual experience .
It 's his philosophy that songs are waiting in the ether for someone to call them forth .
This song he thinks proves that point .
He told us : `` A friend of mine wrote a poem about child abuse , and I remember reading the poem and thinking , Man , that would be a strong song .
I 'm a dark writer , actually .
I write a lot of dark things .
But I thought that child abuse might be too dark for me to even write .
So I tried to leave the idea alone , and I remember coming back to it a couple of days later .
I was like , Man , I ca n't do that , I ca n't write it .
Couple of days later I saw a story on the news about the exact same thing .
I thought , Somebody somewhere is trying to get me to write this song .
And I wrote the first verse and the chorus in a week and a half , and after that , I mean , every two weeks pick it up , put it back down .
Two weeks later pick it up , put it back down .
It took me two years to write ` Alyssa Lies . '
So that 's where I kind of started believing that that 's how it is . ''
According to Childhelp.org , over 3 million reports of child abuse are made In the U.S. every year .
Yet it is believed that the actual incidents of abuse and neglect are three times greater than those actually reported.Some sobering statistics : * 4 children die every day as a result of child abuse and three out of four of these victims are under the age of 4 .
** A report of child abuse is made very 10 seconds .
* Of the reported rapes of children under 12 years old , 90 % of the victims knew the perpetrator .
** Child abuse occurs at every socio-economic level , across ethnic and cultural lines , with all religions , and at all levels of education .
* 36.7 % of all women in prison and 14.4 % of all men in prison in the United States were abused as children .
** Children who have been sexually abused are 2.5 times more likely to abuse alcohol and 3.8 times more likely to become addicted to drugs .
* One-third of abused and neglected children will later abuse their own children , continuing the horrible cycle of abuse.To learn more , visit Childhelp.org , they are a non-profit organization .
