Fame was a 1980 movie about students at Fiorello LaGuardia High , also known as the New York City High School for the Performing Arts .
It 's a real school whose alumni include Robert De Niro , Jennifer Aniston , Liza Minnelli and Nicki Minaj .
The movie was fictional , following some of the students who aspired to stardom .
Irene Cara played the role of Coco Hernandez in the film and also sang this title song .
The song captured the spirit of the students determined to make sure people remember their names .
Dean Pitchford tells us that this song took about a month to write .
`` That was excruciating , because it was very tough to navigate , '' He said .
`` You know , the idea of fame is such a pumped up , almost self-congratulatory notion , like , I 'm going to be famous .
It was very tricky to navigate and write something that still had energy and gosh-golly about it , without feeling too self-satisfied . ''
A very distinctive feature of this song are the background vocals that trail out the word `` Remember '' after the line `` baby , remember my name . ''
It was Luther Vandross who came up with that part and sang it with backup singers Vivian Cherry and Vicki Sue Robinson -LRB- best known for her hit `` Turn The Beat Around '' -RRB- .
Vandross was not yet a solo star , but was in demand as a backup vocalist .
He was the contractor on this session , meaning he was in charge of the backup vocals .
Dean Pitchford explained : `` He came in , listened down to the track .
We got to the end of the chorus and he said , ` Back it up , back it up !
Check this out . '
And Irene Cara sang , ` Baby remember my name , ' and he went , ` Remember , remember , remember ... ' and we all went , ` Oh !
That 's terrific ! '
Luther Vandross is the one who not only came up with ` remember , remember , remember ... ' but he also stacked the voices on top of , ` I 'm going to learn how to fly high . '
He did that .
He made a couple of other contributions around the edges , but the ` remember ' was the major one . ''
The line `` I 'm gon na live forever '' is one Dean Pitchford knew very well when he started writing this song .
Says Dean , `` There was a play that had been on Broadway years ago called Dylan , and it won massive amounts of awards when it was on Broadway .
It was about the life of the Welsh poet , Dylan Thomas .
When I was in high school I competed in speech tournaments and I was a debater , but I also did dramatic interp and things like that .
There was a particular long speech that Dylan Thomas gives .
He 's drunk and he speaks about the gift that a poet gets : he may not have a long life , but in his poems he gets to live forever .
And I competed with this , I went all the way to the state finals delivering this speech .
And I always loved the sentiment in poetry : if you write words , you get to live forever in your works.I wrote that line when Michael Gore played me the melody that he had come up with for the chorus .
I listened down to it once , and I said , ` Oh , you mean something like ... ' and he went back to the top and he was playing it down , and I sang , ` Fame !
I 'm gon na live forever , ' and he stopped playing , and he went , ` Oh my god !
Write that down !
I do n't want to forget that ! '
And I said , ` Oh , Michael , I do n't think I could forget that one . '
The rest of the song took forever to write .
It was literally a month of six days , seven days a week , six hours a day of carving every one of those verses .
But that line sprang out of my mouth . ''
The movie Fame got a remake in 2009 , with Naturi Naughton in a starring role and performing this song .
Her version made # 33 in the UK .
Lesley Gore 's brother Michael Gore was the musical supervisor on Fame and responsible for coming up with the songs for the movie .
He wrote this song with Dean Pitchford , a stage and commercial actor with a degree in English literature from Yale .
Pitchford studied songwriting with Peter Allen -LRB- `` I Honestly Love You , '' `` Do n't Cry Out Loud '' -RRB- and Gore gave him a big break when he asked him to write some lyrics for the movie .
Pitchford co-wrote the title song and also `` I Sing the Body Electric '' and `` Red Light , '' which were included in the film .
When we spoke with Pitchford in 2012 , he told us : `` At the time it was exactly what I had been living for the last six or seven years in New York .
Had I stopped that and gotten further away from it in years , perhaps it would n't have been as heartfelt as it was .
But both ` Fame ' and ` The Body Electric ' were both real available to me.Gore and Pitchford later collaborated on `` All The Man I Need , '' which was a hit for Whitney Houston in 1990 .
Soon after Fame Pitchford started work on his screenplay that would become Footloose .
This won the 1980 Oscar for Best Original Song , and Gore also won for Best Score for his work on the movie .
Three years later , Irene Cara won the Best Original Song award along with Giorgio Moroder and Keith Forsey for writing `` Flashdance ... What a Feeling , '' which she also performed .
The movie was spun off into a TV show in 1982 , with this song used at the theme and sung by Erica Gimpel , who played Coco Hernandez in this version -LRB- Janet Jackson was on the show for a season -RRB- .
When the song was first released in 1980 , it flopped in the UK , but two years later it hit # 1 as a result of the TV series .
Lyricists can be very particular about how their words are sung , lest the be misinterpreted .
He was new at this , so Dean Pitchford did n't push it , but in later years he became more a of `` lyric policeman , '' even asking Barbra Streisand to redo a line in his song `` If I Never Met You . ''
Said Pitchford : `` When I did ` Fame , ' it never occurred to me that anybody would mishear Irene Cara sing , ` People will see me and cry , Fame ! '
, but people have misheard that as ` die . '
And I was horrified to find that lyric sites would write out the lyric to ` Fame ' and state as if it were fact that I had written ` people will see me and die . '
No .
I had written ` people will see me and cry , Fame ! '
That would be their cry . ''
