Rufus Wainwright closes his seventh studio album , Out Of The Game with this reflection on his late mother , Kate McGarrigle 's , passing .
He told UK newspaper The Sun : `` I 'm still dealing with my mother 's death .
The second year anniversary came and the pain bounced back again .
I do n't think there was a more famous mother-son duo than us .
We worked together , partied together and were super-close .
That song is based on a real story .
Throughout my mother 's illness and subsequent death we all would light candles at cathedrals throughout the world and it was very comforting .
Then she died and I ended up going to three different churches in the week after she had passed and each one of them was out of candles.At first , I took it as a message saying , ` I 'm OK now , do n't worry .
You felt the sun in your life and I 'm travelling ' .
But then when I did finally light her a candle I was in Paris at Notre Dame cathedral .
It was high mass and there was incense everywhere , singing and organs and then I realised , ` Wait a minute , my mom was just hedging her bets .
`` He added with a laugh : `` She wanted me to do it in the big church .
She was n't going to have it in the chapel down the street , she wanted the big cathedral `` I 'm not a religious person but I am a spiritual person and it made me think how grateful I was because my mom actually did have a really good death and was at home with her family .
We were lucky . ''
Producer Mark Ronson gave Wainwright full reign on this song .
He told MusicRadar.com : `` We tried a couple of things with drums at one point , but it became obvious that I had to do it my way .
I dictated the full structure and production of the piece , and Mark facilitated it for me .
It has my family , it has bagpipes , it has funeral drums ... I knew where to go with it .
Mark was there the whole time listening , appreciating and supporting me - mostly emotionally .
It was n't an easy song to do . ''
Here 's some candle trivia : Slow-burning candles made of tallow or wax and usually cylindrical with a fiber wick at the center , have been used since 3000BC .
Around the turn of the 19th century , domestic illumination was still mainly by candles .
The gentry used beeswax candles ; everyone else used tallow.You can see a candle flame from 50 Kilometers on a clear , dark night.In the US 7 out of 10 homes use candles .
