This is a promotional single off David Guetta 's fifth studio album Nothing But The Beat .
The single features Australian pop singer-songwriter Sia Furler and was released on August 8 , 2011 .
Titanium is a strong , light and corrosion-resistant metallic element .
Titanium alloys are used in aircraft , armor plating , missiles , naval ships and spacecraft .
The music video stars Super 8 actor Ryan Lee as the schoolboy with supernatural powers .
Others UK # 1 singles with metals referenced in the title include Freda Payne 's `` Band of Gold '' and David Soul 's `` Silver Lady . ''
However , `` Titanium '' is the strongest chart-topping metal to date .
Guetta told Artist Direct about this track : `` That song is interesting because it 's different from anything else on the album .
All of the guests on the album are from pop and R&B , and ` Titanium ' is a little bit like a UFO flying over it all because Sia is a more of an indie artist .
I think she 's the only white girl on the record -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
I fell in love with the song .
At first , she wrote that song and demoed it .
She wanted to give it to another artist , but I felt her voice is so incredible and the song is so emotional that I really wanted her to stay on it .
The song also uses some acoustic elements which is very different from what I usually do .
I think it makes it very interesting . ''
Sia recorded a demo guide vocal , which she sent first of all to Katy Perry , but the California Gurls singer turned it down saying she did n't want to work with Guetta .
After trying several other artists , Mary J. Blige finally recorded the song , but her version leaked online in July 2011 , so Guetta decided to stick with Sia 's original version .
He explained in an interview with News.com.au : `` The first time I heard what Sia did , because she was not in the studio with me , I fell in love with it ... I did n't even want to give it to anyone else ; it was perfect the way it was .
It 's not only about how big you are in America , it 's about the song and the voice . ''
The song was Guetta 's fifth # 1 single in the UK , his fourth as lead artist .
However , it was Sia 's first ever visit to the top spot , twelve years after she first made her British chart debut with the # 10 peaking `` Taken For Granted . ''
Sia wrote the lyric in 40 minutes .
She tweeted : `` It 's amazing that 40 minutes of my life and zero promo turned into my most successful song to date . ''
