The Civil Wars is an indie folk duo composed of CCM vocalist Joy Williams and guitarist/songwriter John Paul White .
This song is the title track of their first EP .
It was released as the pair 's first single on November 4 , 2009 .
The track also features on The Civil Wars ' debut full-length album , Barton Hollow .
It is the only song on the longplayer that Williams and White wrote with an outside collaborator - their friend Nashville songwriter Chris Lindsey .
This came to many people 's attention when it was heard prominently on the `` New History '' episode of Grey 's Anatomy over a key climactic montage .
Other TV shows that its featured in include 90210 and The Vampire Diaries as well as the soundtrack to the movie Something Borrowed .
White explained the song 's meaning to UK newspaper , The Sun : `` That song has parallels to our band and our band name , '' he said .
`` It 's about all those battles you have with your spouse though it could be about addiction or even about your job .
It was therapeutic to write.We asked each other ` What would you scream at your partner - without them hearing or without any of the fallout -- if you needed to get something off your chest ?
And that 's how we wrote that song .
We love to write in a way that is inclusive . ''
The song was originally included on Live At Eddie 's Attic , a live album recorded during the Civil Wars ' second ever show at Eddie 's Attic in Decatur , Georgia on April 8 , 2009 .
It was released on the duo 's website as a free download on June 30 , 2009 .
The song is a thematic declaration of intent for The Civil Wars , encapsulating everything suggested in the duo 's name when it comes to exploring the conflicts that arise as part of being a married couple .
`` That song probably does sum us up -- The Civil Wars , the name of the band -- as well as any song that we 've written , '' said White .
`` We 're all married , and we were all talking about the good , the bad and the ugly , and just felt like : What would you say to someone if you were actually brutally honest -- the things that you could never say because it would turn them away or let the cat out of the bag or reveal yourself to be weaker ?
What would you actually say if you had this invisible curtain around you and could just scream it in somebody 's face and they 'd actually never hear it ?
We were all being very painfully honest , because we 're all very comfortable around each other and know that things like that never leave the room , except in a song .
I 'm pretty proud of that song , to be honest . ''
The song gained a wholly unsolicited endorsement when fellow Nashvillian Taylor Swift included it as a selection in her official iTunes playlist , tweeting , `` I think this is my favorite duet .
It 's exquisite . ''
The Civil Wars later teamed up with Swift to record `` Safe and Sound '' for the soundtrack of the movie , The Hunger Games .
