Strawberry Field was a Salvation Army home in Liverpool where John Lennon used to go .
He had fond memories of the place that inspired this .
In 1984 , Lennon 's widow Yoko Ono donated $ 375,000 to the home .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Lennon -LRB- from his 1980 interview with Playboy magazine -RRB- : `` Strawberry Fields is a real place .
After I stopped living at Penny Lane , I moved in with my auntie who lived in the suburbs in a nice semidetached place with a small garden and doctors and lawyers and that ilk living around ... not the poor slummy kind of image that was projected in all the Beatles stories .
In the class system , it was about half a class higher than Paul , George and Ringo , who lived in government-subsidized housing .
We owned our house and had a garden .
They did n't have anything like that .
Near that home was Strawberry Fields , a house near a boys ' reformatory where I used to go to garden parties as a kid with my friends Nigel and Pete we would go there and hang out and sell lemonade bottles for a penny .
We always had fun at Strawberry Fields .
So that 's where I got the name .
But I used it as an image .
Strawberry Fields forever .
`` Some of the lyrics reflect being misunderstood .
Lennon added : `` The second line goes , ` No one I think is in my tree . '
Well , what I was trying to say in that line is , ` Nobody seems to be as hip as me , therefore I must be crazy or a genius . ' ''
-LRB- thanks , Conrad - Los Angeles , CA -RRB- A distorted voice at the end sounds like `` I buried Paul , '' which fueled rumors that Paul McCartney was dead .
The voice is actually Lennon saying , `` Cranberry sauce . ''
Over the end credits of the Simpsons episode `` D'oh-in In The Wind , '' you can hear Homer saying `` I buried Flanders '' in reference to this .
-LRB- thanks , Tommy - flower mound , TX -RRB- John donated money to Strawberry Fields before his death .
One of its buildings is named `` Lennon Hall . ''
This was the first Beatles single to break their long-running streak of # 1 hits in the UK .
If they had not released it with `` Penny Lane , '' they would have beaten the existing # 1 by a large margin , but stores recorded sales for one side of the single or the other , which hurt the chart position for this song .
-LRB- thanks , Confusing - Sydney , Australia -RRB- John Lennon played the intro to the song on a Mellotron .
The Mellotron is a keyboard that triggers loops of recorded taped instruments at different pitches .
It is not a synthesized sound at all , but recordings of actual instruments .
This song used flutes as the tape loops .
The unique sound comes from warble in the tape during playback .
Strings were another popular tape loop used in the Mellotron , used by the Moody Blues on Days of Future Passed .
-LRB- thanks , Michael De Lazzer - Studio City , CA , for above 2 -RRB- The working title was `` It 's Not Too Bad . ''
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Mountlake Terrace , Washington -RRB- On January 30 , 1967 , The Beatles shot a promo film for this song , which was one of the first and most successful music videos , featuring stop motion animation and other special effects .
It was filmed in and around Knole Park , an estate owned by the National Trust , near Sevenoaks in Kent .
The tree that features prominently in the video is behind the park 's birdhouse .
The director of these videos was Peter Foldmann , a Swedish friend of Klaus Voormann , who was associated with the Beatles in their early days in Hamburg and later designed the Revolver album cover .
The following day the Beatles filmed a promo film for `` Penny Lane '' also at Knole Park .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England -RRB- `` Strawberry Fields Forever '' is the name of a US fan club that publishes a popular Beatles magazine .
It turns out Strawberry Fields is not forever .
In 2005 , Britain 's Salvation Army closed the Strawberry Field children 's home in Liverpool , stating that it 's preferable for children to be raised in a foster or small group home instead of a large orphanage .
The home opened in 1936 , and Lennon left money to Strawberry Field in his will .
His widow , Yoko Ono , donated the equivalent of $ 70,000 in 1984 to keep the home open .
Only 3 children remained in the home in January 2005 , when the Salvation Army announced it would close .
-LRB- thanks , Tom - Seneca , SC -RRB- Richie Havens opened the Woodstock festival in 1969 .
He performed this and `` Hey Jude '' in his set .
Trent Reznor from Nine Inch Nails owns the Mellotron played at the beginning of this song .
-LRB- thanks , Leslie - Mountainville , NY , for above 2 -RRB- George Martin revealed at a 2008 LA presentation for members of the National Recording Academy of Arts and Sciences , that Lennon told him before he died in 1980 that he wished he could re-record everything the Beatles ever did .
When the astonished Beatles producer asked , `` Even ` Strawberry Fields ?
, ' '' Lennon answered , `` Especially ` Strawberry Fields ! ' ''
Later in 1967 , another famous musical strawberry emerged when a group called the Strawberry Alarm Clock had a # 1 US hit with `` Incense And Peppermints . ''
A common rumor was that the band based their name on this song , but they were actually told by their record company to use `` strawberry , '' as Donovan 's `` Mellow Yellow , '' with the `` electrical banana , '' brought psychedelic imagery to fruit .
The group , who were from California , faked a British look and sound at first , and were originally called Thee Sixpence .
John 's aunt Mimi did not like John going to Strawberry Fields , as it was basically an orphanage and she thought they would lead John astray .
John liked going there because having lost his father and later his mother he felt a kinship to the lads .
When John and his aunt would argue about his going he would often reply , `` What are they going to do , hang me ? ''
Thus the line `` Nothing to get hung about . ''
In America , to be `` hung up '' is to worry about something , so many US listeners thought the line meant that it was nothing to get `` hung up about . ''
-LRB- thanks , Ken - Hartland , MI -RRB- Lennon wrote this while he was in Spain working on a movie called How I Won The War .
He house where he stayed was in Almeria , which is in the southeast corner of the country .
-LRB- thanks , Michelle Hardman - Leeds , England -RRB- There is a memorial to Lennon in Central Park called `` Strawberry Fields . ''
It is located across from The Dakota , the building in New York City where Lennon lived .
This was released as the flip side of `` Penny Lane . ''
The Beatles often released singles that contained a song written by Lennon on one side , and a song written by McCartney on the other .
Which single was considered the A-side was sometimes a point of contention .
Two versions were recorded with different instruments and spliced together to make one song .
Where Lennon 's vocal wanders during `` going to ; '' after that point , the second take is slowed down , which causes the vocal to have more of a nasal sound.The story goes that John Lennon could n't decide on which of the two versions to release , so he left George Martin with the instruction to try an put them together .
Martin was flabbergasted - they were in different keys and different tempos !
But he found that by speeding up the first part and slowing down the second , he could made the two roughly match .
The `` magical mystery '' edit occurs at exactly :59 seconds in , between the words `` Let me take you down , 'cause I 'm '' / edit / `` Going to . .
Strawberry Fields . ''
Be cautious in listening for this edit !
You will never hear this song the same way again .
Martin was never completely pleased with the edit , but it just goes to show how creative and innovative the aging geniuses had become by the late '60s .
-LRB- thanks to Dwight Rounds , author of The Year The Music Died , 1964-1972 -RRB- This was the first pop song that faded to silence and then came back .
The fake ending drove DJs nuts .
Just after Lennon sings , `` Let me take you down 'cause I 'm going to , '' there is a series of beeps which , in Morse Code , form the letters `` J '' and `` L. '' -LRB- thanks , Buddy - South Bend , IN -RRB- Peter Gabriel covered this in 1975 on the compilation All This And World War II .
Cyndi Lauper performed this at the Strawberry Fields memorial in Central Park as part of the 2001 special Come Together : A Night For John Lennon 's Words And Music .
Proceeds from the show went to victims of the September 11 attacks on America .
Vanilla Fudge does a series of fractured covers of this song on the second side of their debut album .
It is split up into four parts , titled `` STRA '' `` WBER '' `` RYFI '' and `` ELDS . ''
At the end of their cover of Eleanor Rigby , they sing `` Nothing is real '' and `` Nothing to get hung about . ''
-LRB- thanks , Jim - Oxnard , CA -RRB- The Victorian house at the Strawberry Fields orphanage in Liverpool was torn down in 1977 , and was replaced with a rectangular house named Lennon Hall .
On the TV show Lost , the character Charlie Pace has some lyrics to this song on his arm .
The tattoo reads , `` Living is easy with eyes closed . ''
-LRB- thanks , Hermione - Los Angeles , CA -RRB- George Harrison played the swarmandal , an Indian instrument that some say sounds like a harp , but actually has more similarity to a zither .
-LRB- thanks , Annabelle - Eugene , OR -RRB-
