This was the first single taken from English alternative rock band Muse 's fifth studio album The Resistance .
Bellamy told MTV News that this is one of the key tracks on The Resistance .
He explained : `` It 's the first track on the album , it kind of sums up what some of the album 's about .
You know , just sick of all these bloody bankers , politicians ... just turning everything to a load of bol -- ks .
Just spending money on s -- and blowing everything .
So it 's kind of like a song that says , ` Take the power back , but have a good time at the same time . '
Have a good time all the time , that 's what we believe . ''
Bellamy expanded on this tune to The Sun September 16 , 2009 : `` In the song you can hear the general feeling that we 've been let down again by big institutions , which are supposed to be in positions of trust .
Politicians obviously and bankers .
I 've got a flat in the center of London , which is right near all the embassies and I noticed protests on a regular basis .
During the G20 protests , the UK , got closer to really making a dramatic change , a non violent revolution .
I think the UK needs one and I hope it has n't died down .
Hopefully we can flame it up again . ''
The Vatican listed this as one of the institution 's `` 12 Favorite Songs '' as part of a playlist on MySpace Music .
The other eleven songs include `` Don Giovanni '' by Mozart , the Vatican 's own `` Advocata Nostra , '' featuring the voice of Pope Benedict XVI and surprisingly `` Changes '' by American rapper Tupac Shakur .
The list was put together by Father Giulio Neroni , artistic director of St Paul 's Multimedia , a church publisher .
It is not known if the Pope has listened to all of the songs .
Muse made their Grammy debut playing this song at the 2011 awards ceremony , where they were introduced by Lenny Kravitz .
Perhaps inspired by the recent uprising in Egypt , their performance had an anarchy theme , with a bunch of guys simulating mayhem below the band as they played .
Later in the ceremony , The Resistance won for Best Rock Album .
Singer/guitarist Matt Bellamy described this to Mojo magazine August 2009 , in a pre-release interview , as `` like a heavy-rock take on Goldfrapp .
It has football-style chanting , with all of us going ` Oi ! '
in time with the snare drum . ''
He added laughing , `` It 's meant to be football hooligans chanting in protest at the banking situation . ''
A number of reviewers have commented on the guitar riff 's similarity to Blondie 's `` Call Me . ''
This reached # 1 on the Mediabase Alternative Rock radio chart , making it the British rock trio 's first song to reach the top of any US chart .
This self-produced hit won the Best Single award at the 2010 Music Producers Guild Awards in London .
In his acceptance speech , Bellamy thanked some of the producers the band worked with on earlier albums , including John Leckie , for `` showing us how you do it . ''
