This is the third single to be released from Pink Friday , the debut studio album by American rapper Nicki Minaj .
The song features Black Eyed Peas member and record producer will.i.am .
Minaj commented on her collaboration with will.I.am to MTV News stating ; `` I worked with tons of producers on my album , shout out to all of them .
Will 's the only producer that produced me .
He really sat there and got this weird sound , and I was like , ` What ? '
It was so simple .
He was sitting there and he made the beat on the spot . ''
She added : `` I was sitting there , and it was like five minutes later , he finished the beat ! ''
Both Minaj and will.I.am starred in the song 's music video whose concept is based on the highly stylized animation style , Japanese anime .
Minaj told MTV News : `` We 're doing almost like an ode to Japanese culture and Japanese anime .
I 'm obviously a big fan and I 've joined forces with like the only boy that I know that 's also able to capture that culture . ''
Minaj explained in the MTV News documentary My Time Now that the words for her raps come her organically .
`` When I write a rap , like , my brain does n't compute , ` Now write rap . '
It does n't .
You just have to let it happen and just do n't second-guess yourself too much and then it gets done , '' she said .
`` To me , music is spiritual , so it moves you in a weird way that you can not teach in school .
I 'll hear a beat and words just start coming to me . ''
The song samples the Buggles ' `` Video Killed The Radio Star , '' which was a big hit in England in 1979 , but pretty much unknown in America until its music video became the first clip to be aired by MTV on August 1 , 1981 .
The fledgling cable channel continued to play the video as at the time there were n't too many to choose from .
The ensuing publicity prompted American radio programmers to , er , check it out , include the song on their playlists and make it a hit stateside .
Many years later , you can make the case that Internet Killed the Video Star .
Minaj and will.I.am performed the number for the first time on the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards pre-show .
The rapper/producer not only had a black top , pants and sneakers , he was also in Black face .
This provoked a reaction with some comparing will.I.am 's makeup to the racist 19th century blackface minstrel shows .
The UK version features a verse by Cheryl Cole making it the third time the X-Factor judge and will.i.am have both featured on a UK hit , following his `` Heartbreaker '' and her `` 3 Words . ''
Pink Friday debuted at # 2 on the Billboard album chart , selling 375,000 copies in its first week - the best sales week for a female MC in the 21st century .
The only long player by a female hip hop act to previously better this was Lauryn Hill 's The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill , which sold 423,000 in its first week back in 1998 .
