The song is about the pain of a relationship going wrong and the necessity of moving on .
The group OneRepublic performs on the track .
Ryan Tedder is a Grammy nominated writer for Paul Oakenfold 's A Lively Mind album .
He also co-wrote and produced `` Do It Well '' for Jennifer Lopez and Leona Lewis ' UK chart topper `` Bleeding Love . ''
This was a massive international hit .
Among the countries `` Apologize '' topped the chart in were Australia , Canada , Germany , Holland , Italy , New Zealand , Sweden and Switzerland .
It also spent 14 weeks at the top of the Eurochart Hot 100 Singles chart before being dethroned by Leona Lewis ' `` Bleeding Love . ''
OneRepublic was formed in Colorado by songwriter and record producer Ryan Tedder and his high school friend Zach Filkins .
The pair relocated to Los Angeles , where they recruited guitarist/keyboardist Drew Brown , bassist Brent Kutzle and drummer Eddie Fisher .
OneRepublic garnered much support from the online community , especially on MySpace .
Their guitar anthem `` Apologize '' got a lot of attention , but it was still a surprise when Hip-Hop , Dance and R&B producer Timbaland produced a remix and included it on his Timbaland Presents : Shock Value album .
It was this version that bought the song to an international audience .
In an interview with ilikemusic.com , Tedder was asked how his collaboration with Timbaland came about : `` Well I 've known Tim for about 6 years .
I used to be signed as a solo artist back in the day .
So he just kept tabs on me as my career progressed and we used to be signed to Columbia records and we got dropped a little over a year ago , and right after we got dropped our band exploded on MySpace out of nowhere , so all these labels starting calling us .
Timbaland was one of them and he offered us the most interesting situation .
He told me ` Aplogize would 've been a hit with or without me ' , as it was already a hit on the internet but what he did was speed up the process tremendously . ''
This song had a 25-week run in the US Top Ten .
It was the longest any song has been in the Top 10 since 1999 , when Santana featuring Rob Thomas ' `` Smooth '' spent 30 weeks in that section of the survey .
