Diamond suggested to the Sun newspaper May 16 , 2008 that this song is `` very different from anything on the album , maybe from anything I 've ever written before .
I think of it as the end of this album or maybe the beginning of the next .
I ca n't rationally explain it .
It 's all about feeling this is the right thing for this moment , this place .
Go create it , write it .
Do something .
Make it happen .
Make it live .
Make it serve its purpose and do it beautifully . ''
Matt Sweeney told Billboard magazine about his contribution to the album : `` I played guitar on all the songs , I think .
We did them live in the studio , with no drums .
Neil played a Martin guitar from the 1800 's , Smokey Hormel played guitar and/or bass , Mike Campbell played guitar and Benmont Tench was on piano and organ .
Mike , Benmont and Smokey are so great to play with - such cool people .
And Rick Rubin is an incredibly sensitive and attentive listener who makes great suggestions for musical moves .
I then threw on some electric and acoustic overdubs by myself , but I 'm not sure if they made it on the final mixes . ''
In the week Home Before Dark entered the Billboard 200 at # 1 , all ten acts in the Top 10 of the chart were solo artists .
It is thought this was the first time ever that no groups , soundtracks or multi-artist collections were involved in the Top 10 .
67-year-old Neil Diamond was the oldest living person to have a # 1 album in America , eclipsing Bob Dylan who was 65 when Modern Times debuted at # 1 in 2006 .
In May 2009 , a 67 years and eleven months old Dylan earned that position again when Together Through Life topped the Billboard album chart .
Neil Diamond told the London Times June 27 , 2008 that the dark title was a synonym for death .
He explained : `` The dark is death , the end .
The dark is something to be feared , to be avoided , to be protected from . ''
In the same Sun interview Diamond added that the song and album title came almost accidentally from a scrap of paper on which the phrase was written .
It inspired him to think of the need to bring `` his close and loved friend home before dark , before the danger and fear that comes with darkness .
It was the last song I wrote .
I thought I had the album finished but somehow , subconsciously , I knew there was something left that needed to be said .
-LRB- Guitarist -RRB- Matt Sweeney was available because he was around from the previous week 's session .
The other guys were not .
It was a case of ` Matt , come into the studio please , with me , and play this and let 's see if the two of us can make this song come alive . '
Matt is an intuitive musician and he 's brilliant .
We did n't know the names of the chords but we made up names for them .
This is an ' X chord ' .
There 's no such thing as an X chord in music but we called it that because we could n't conceive of what it really was .
It 's extraordinarily complicated but also as simple as it could possibly be .
It kicked off the song .
Matt with his intensity , his adventurous spirit and his courage , and me with my will were going to capture this song together . ''
Home Before Dark debuted at # 1 on the Billboard 200 album chart .
It was Diamond 's first ever album chart-topper 42 years after he first appeared on the Billboard listings with 1966 's The Feel of Neil Diamond .
The closest he 'd previously got to the summit was with the 1973 soundtrack to Jonathan Livingston Seagull , which reached # 2 .
The 146,000 first-week US sales were also Diamond 's biggest debut sales week since SoundScan began tracking in 1991 .
Home Before Dark also topped the UK album charts .
This was Diamond 's second # 1 album in the UK .
His The Greatest Hits 1966-92 collection also reached the summit in 1992 .
Like Neil Diamond 's previous album 12 Songs , this was produced by Rick Rubin , who had previously masterminded Johnny Cash 's late career renaissance including his cover of Nine Inch Nail 's `` Hurt . ''
The producer and record label boss has had a similar effect on Diamond 's career and the singer-songwriter told the Sun about working with Rubin : `` I think Rick and I came together at a very fortuitous moment .
It was at a time when I had to show my colors .
When I heard that clock ticking louder than ever , when I knew that my time and my chances were limited , I suddenly got the opportunity to work with somebody new who I liked .
I did n't know very much about him .
Professionally , I knew a little bit , but mostly I started to work with Rick because I liked him . ''
Neil Diamond -LRB- from Q magazine July 2008 -RRB- : '' ` Home Before Dark ' was the last song I wrote and I knew it was going to be the last song on the album .
It tells my story , my journey , my search .
It 's an anchor on a stormy sea of songs that precedes it .
I did n't try to write about my life , but what else do I know ? ''
