The Love Boat was a popular ABC TV show that ran from 1977-1986 .
It was set on a cruise ship , and followed a few plot lines each week as passengers and crew had various adventures .
This song runs about 1:30 , and was used to introduce the guest stars and regular characters .
In the '70s and '80s , many shows had well-crafted theme songs that introduced the actors and led to the first commercial break .
In the '90s , theme songs began to disappear as shows often went right to the action .
In 1976 , Williams wrote the Oscar-winning `` Evergreen '' for the movie A Star Is Born , which begins with the line , `` Love , soft as an easy chair . ''
Says Williams , `` You know , it 's funny , because on stage I sometimes talk about that .
I say , ` I 'm going to do a medley of two songs that you 'll never hear together again , but they 're the only two songs I 've ever written that begin with the word ` love . ' ''
-LRB- Check out our interview with Paul Williams . -RRB-
Jack Jones was very popular singer in the '60s ; among his hits were `` Wives And Lovers , '' `` Dear Heart '' and `` The Race Is On . ''
He went on to become a successful performed in Las Vegas .
This was written by Charles Fox and Paul Williams .
Along with Norman Gimbel , Fox also wrote the theme songs for Happy Days and Laverne & Shirley , as well as the hit songs `` Killing Me Softly With His Song '' and `` I Got A Name . ''
Williams , who is also an actor and appeared on The Love Boat as a guest star , wrote for many movies , including A Star Is Born and Bugsy Malone , and crafted hits for the Carpenters and Three Dog Night .
Williams told us how this song came together : `` Charlie Fox gave me this melody , said that it was a new series called The Love Boat , it was about a cruise ship .
We honestly did n't think it was going to last 6 weeks .
We thought , who 's going to watch a series about a cruise ship ?
And so he sent me the melody , and I thought , what 's this all about ?
It 's all about love , you know .
Every episode was going to be about these three little stories ... you know , meeting and falling in love , going through life stuff .
And ` BOM ba da . '
It 's an important note , it 's got ta be an important word .
` Bom , ba dee da da da , ' so it 's ` boats , ' ` ships , ' ba dee da da , you know , ` tits , ' ` ba dee da da ' ... There 's a lot of stuff you could stick in there , but the thing that seemed to work best is , ` Love , exciting and new , come aboard , we 're expecting you . '
The first line of the song , and you 've got people on board the ship . ''
When we spoke with Charles Fox , he told us how the show and the music for the theme came about .
Said Fox : `` When I did Love Boat , before it was a television series it was a television movie , a 2-hour movie-of-the-week .
And we did two or three of them .
Doug Cramer , who had been the president of Paramount Television when I did Love , American Style , he was partner on Love Boat with Aaron Spelling .
And when I had the first meeting about the show , he said , ` Just think of ` Love , American Style ' on the water , on a cruise ship . '
The only difference is that a cast of characters would revolve around each story , whereas in Love , American Style , there are three separate segments with different casts - totally different scripts .
Each one was about 12-14 minutes long .
Love Boat , the cast would intertwine two or three different stories , start with the captain , with the steward , and all that .
And Gopher .
So that was the basic difference .
But he says , ` Think of ` Love , American Style ' on the high seas .
` So that had to have a spirit of adventure , you know .
And I will tell you something else , I do n't know if I 've ever told this story to anyone , but when I sat with Doug Cramer he asked me if I knew Murder on the Orient Express , the film .
It was a big movie at the time , and I said I did .
He said , ` You know the shot of the train taking off - the Orient Express about to go from Paris to Venice and passing through the eastern block countries ? '
He said , ` There 's a shot at the beginning , at the main title , where the wheel started to turn little by little , and the smoke stack . '
And he says , ` There 's a sense of excitement and anticipation .
If you could write the same kind of music for that , I think that would be great . '
So I said , ` Well , I remember that very well , and John Barry did a wonderful job with that , but it was a waltz . '
I recall it being just a nice waltz which seemed to go very well with the period and all that .
He said , ` Well , then , maybe you could use that as a guide . '
Well , I went home and I looked at my show , and I said , ` It really has nothing to do with a waltz . '
It was a big , elaborate film ; it was Cinemascope with high shots of the train coming around bends .
And ours needed to have more of an immediacy , it had more rhythm and more percussion .
So I ended up writing the Love Boat theme with a disco beat .
And Doug , when he heard it , said , ` Perfect . '
-LRB- laughs -RRB- Said , ` It 's exactly what I wanted . ' ''
A version recorded by Dionne Warwick was used for the last season of the show .
