This is the closing track from the Christian post hardcore band The Devil Wears Prada 's fourth studio album Dead Throne .
Vocalist Mike Hrancia told Alternative Press : `` Lyrically , it 's the most positive song .
I thought it was cool to end the record with optimism , which is weird , because in retrospect I 've always thought you end the record super heavy and super angry and leave people on that bitter note .
To me , Dead Throne is very depressing .
The end of the song is cool as far as just absolute vocal chaos . ''
Guitarist Jeremy DePoyster said that he wrote this song in an attempt to combine the heavier sides of the band 's Metal sound with a straightforward Pop song structure .
The idea was to produce a song that was both loud and aggressive while still having a catchy , radio-friendly appeal .
This was the closing song on 2011 's Dead Throne .
Singer/lyricist Mike Hranica said that he wrote the song to stand out from the rest of the album : while Dead Throne is a very dark and depressing album , he wanted to end things on a positive , upbeat note .
Guitarist Chris Rubey based the song on a cover of Big Tymers ' rap song `` Still Fly , '' which the band recorded in 2008 for the Punk Goes Crunk compilation album .
He told Alternative Press : That one truthfully was written right after Branches came out , and we were like , ` Well , let 's write a song that if it ever was to be our radio song , would be our radio song . '
` Still Fly ' on that Punk Goes Crunk -LSB- compilation -RSB- , that 's still our number one song on iTunes , and I was just asking myself what makes people like songs like this .
Because to me it 's just kind of repetitive ; I broke down the song structure and it 's just chorus , verse , chorus , verse , chorus , verse ... So I used the same structure as ` Still Fly ' but tried to write a way better , more metal song .
I was telling myself when I was coming up with the riffs and everything , ` Write harder Killswitch , more metal Killswitch . '
I think it 's the most different song .
It does n't necessarily sit with the rest of the album .
I think it 's the most With Roots Above-esque song on the album , but I think there -LSB- will be -RSB- a lot of people that are going to desire that , so that song is for them . ''
`` Holdfast '' is an optimistic song wherein Mike Hranica denounces the power of negativity and swears the he 'll always find a way to be strong and overcome the obstacles in his life .
The song also explicitly reflects the band 's Christian faith with the line `` Bless the Lord , oh my soul , for these words will never pass '' .
The song name appears in the chorus , which is simply `` We will not be forgotten , we will not be forgotten ; holdfast . ''
The song uses an intense allusive , metaphoric style that gives it a surreal , almost Biblical feel that further augments its religious themes .
