Jack Hues of Wang Chung told Eric Greenberg on the Just My Show podcast : `` It begins quite innocent : ` take your baby by the hand , ' and then the last verse with ` take your baby by the wrists , and in her mouth an amethyst , ' it 's all a bit more hallucinogenic in a way , how things that start off simple get complex.My dad was a musician , and he had a band that played in an old-fashioned dance hall .
I used to play with him in that band , so maybe there 's sort of the nostalgia that 's in the track .
It 's all quite real , actually , as far as experiences that I had when I was first starting out playing , and playing in public.Musically , it 's that sort of rhythm and that kind of shuffly beat .
Technically it 's sort of like 3 against 2 -LRB- laughs -RRB- , but we 're not gon na talk about all that .
It 's a particular feel that was sort of unusual at the time , I suppose .
It was partly inspired by one of the Adam and the Ants tracks , and that 's part of the thinking of using Chris Hughes , who produced Adam 's Kings of The Wild Frontier album .
I think the record company were keen that we sort of met up with him , and Chris and I have been friends ever since that time - Chris works with me on my jazz records that I 've made in the last couple of years .
It 's been one of the most important friendships of my life . ''
This was featured in the 1997 movie Romy and Michele 's High School Reunion .
When this song was on the charts , Wang Chung was touring in America as the opening act for The Cars , who were supporting their album Heartbeat City .
Even though they are British , this was Wang Chung 's only hit in the UK .
After it proved to be a bigger hit in the US and was featured in the film To Live And Die In LA , they decided to ignore the UK market and concentrate on the US .
This proved an astute decision as they recorded two more American top 10 hits , `` Everybody Have Fun Tonight '' -LRB- # 2 in 1986 -RRB- and `` Let 's Go ! ''
-LRB- # 9 in 1987 -RRB- , whilst not even recording a minor chart placing in the UK .
Hues explained on Just My Show : `` I think it has perhaps created a slight air of unreality around it .
Because Wang Chung in Britain is sort of obscure '80s band .
I think ` Dance Hall Days ' was a fairly substantial hit over here , although it did n't chart high , it was in the charts for a long time .
It took a long time going up , and a long time going down , like a proper record should do .
And we did Top of the Pops a couple of times , which was a big BBC show where promising bands - or not so promising bands - got their exposure .
But I think the divide between the US and the UK for me probably worked , in that I 'm quite a private person , and at the time of ` Dance Hall Days ' I had three children , and I was n't married at the time , but my family life is very important to me .
Being able to come home and be low key was great .
I could leave all of the craziness behind in the States and just be myself , as it were , when I got back here . ''
Wang Chung frontman Jack Hues ' real name is Jeremy Ryder .
He took the stage name as a persona , which British musicians like Joe Strummer and Johnny Rotten were doing at the time .
He is the biological father of British actor Jack Ryder , who played Jaime in the British Soap Opera Eastenders .
-LRB- thanks , dave - ipswich , England -RRB-
