This is one of the few songs Seger recorded that he did n't write .
It was written by the songwriters George Jackson and Thomas Jones , who worked for Muscle Shoals Sound Studios , where the song was recorded .
Although Seger worked on the lyrics , he did n't take any songwriting credit .
This means that Seger does n't own the publishing rights to the song , and Jackson and Jones control when it is used in movies and commercials.According to Seger , he was feeling generous that day , and says not seeking composer credit was `` the dumbest thing I ever did . ''
Seger claims he changed all the original lyrics except for the `` old time rock and roll '' part .
He made sure to take a dig at Disco music , which was fading in popularity .
The original demo for this song had George Jackson on vocals , which did n't work when pitching the song to Bob Seger .
David Hood , who was the Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section bass player , told us , `` After we got through recording it , we listened to it and thought , Well , pretty good , but George is a black guy .
And he just did n't sound like a rock and roll singer .
So Jimmy -LRB- Johnson , MSSS guitarist -RRB- and I were working with a rock group that we were trying to produce at the time .
We brought in the singer from that group , a young man named Dennis Gulley , and put him on the track , the rock and roll track .
And when we heard his version of it , we thought , Wow , that sounds just like something that Bob Seger would do.We had been recording with Bob for some time by then .
We knew that Bob did n't really cut other people 's stuff very much , but we thought , well , there 's a chance .
So we sent it to Bob .
He liked it , wanted to make a couple of changes to make it suit him a little bit more .
So he came back in and re-recorded the song with us and also recorded it with his band , the Silver Bullet Band , and it just never came off .
And so he ended up putting his voice on our demo , the demo that we had done at our Studio B with George Jackson .
They just took George 's voice off , put Bob 's voice on there , and that 's the hit record . ''
The George Jackson - Muscle Shoals connection is through Malaco Records of Jackson , Mississippi -LRB- `` America 's Last Soul Record Label '' -RRB- .
Jackson was a staff songwriter for Malaco , and Malaco often recorded their sessions at Muscle Shoals .
He was also a part owner of the studio .
-LRB- thanks , rick - ottawa , IL -RRB- This was used in a commercial for Friskies cat food , with the lyrics changed to : `` Just take the Friskies off the shelf , your cat can eat them all by himself . ''
It was later used in popular commercials for the video game Guitar Hero , which parodied the Risky Business scene .
Seger recorded this with the Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , a famous group of studio musicians who owned their own recording studio in Alabama .
Other singers they had worked with include Aretha Franklin , Paul Simon , and Rod Stewart .
They gave many songs a feeling of authenticity , which was important to Seger because his last album was very successful and he did n't want to be perceived as selling out to pop radio.Jerry Masters , who was a recording engineer at Muscle Shoals Sound Studio , told us the story : `` We cut a demo on the writer of the song , George Jackson , there at the studio when we did n't have anything else to do .
It was a great demo , along with some others we cut that day .
Seger liked the song so much he tried to cut it himself , but after numerous tries , with the Swampers and with his band , he finally gave up .
He and Punch Andrews decided to buy the demo track from us and put his vocal on it , and that ended up being the record .
It 's a classic .
We also did ` Night Moves , ' ` Katmandu , ' and several more that were on the Silver Bullet Band LP .
So the classic ` Old Time ' was in reality a demo we cut on the writer a couple of years earlier . ''
The lead guitar player on this was not a Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section player .
It was Forrest McDonald , a young man just passing through who happened to stop in the studio that day .
When we spoke with David Hood , he told us the story : `` He happened to come in the parking lot in his mother and daddy 's car with them , and Jimmy was out on the back porch .
I believe his first name was Howie , but he probably goes by another name .
But anyway , that 's very true .
He came into the parking lot one afternoon and Jimmy was out on the back porch .
And he says , ` Well , I 'm a guitar player and I 'm wanting to learn how to play on recording sessions .
And I think I 'm good . '
He says , ` Well , got your guitar with you ? '
He says , ` Yeah . '
Jimmy says , ` Well , come on in . '
And they put him on the track .
His mother and daddy never even got out of the car .
They sat in the car in the parking lot with the air conditioning running .
And they put him on the track playing guitar and it 's on the record , it stayed on there .
It was a good enough part that they kept it on there . ''
This was used in the 1983 movie Risky Business in a famous scene where Tom Cruise danced to the song in his underwear .
