Lead singer Chino Moreno : `` I did n't really like Mx that much , and I had completely different vocals than I had written in the practice place when we were writing it .
When I was recording the vocals in the control room , and I started to say to myself , ` This is boring .
Throw this song away or stop rolling the tape . '
And I just wrote a whole new song over the actual music .
New melodies , new whole idea .
It was just something that I was feeling at the moment .
And then Abe 's wife -LRB- Annalynn -RRB- was there in the studio and I was thinking there are these parts that I 'd really like a girl 's voice on , so I asked her if she 'd do it .
She was like , ' I do n't wan na do this ' and I talked her into it .
After it was all done I had a completely different song .
Right then it became one of my favorite songs , 'cause it was something I completely changed around myself .
It could have been just a normal , kind of boring song , but it ended up being one of my favorite songs in about an hour , with me just realizing that I can completely do whatever I want that completely changes it .
So that was cool .
I would just hit the old bottle of wine ... I had a music stand with some of my lyrics on it , some candles burning , and instead of using a hand-held microphone like I usually use , I was using a really nice microphone .
I just stood there and let loose .
It was something I 'd never done .
I think that 's how singers usually record , but on the first record I recorded everything live with the band in the room , with a little Shure 58 microphone .
I 'd never done it that way and it was a lot different .
It was fun .
It felt a little bit more personal for some reason , 'cause I was in there by myself , with my headphones on , and most of the record was recorded in the dark , and a majority of the record was recorded when I was drunk .
So it felt pretty good .
I thought it was pretty cool . ''
This was first called `` Max '' because the riff was similar to something that Soulfly singer Max Cavalera would make .
-LRB- thanks , Tim - Pittsburgh , PA , for all above -RRB- Drummer Abe Cunningham 's wife Annalynn is the female voice .
