This is a factual retelling of a shipwreck on Lake Superior in November , 1975 that claimed the lives of 29 crew members .
On November 10 , 1975 , the S.S. Edmund Fitzgerald broke in half and sunk in Lake Superior .
The storm she was caught in reported winds from 35 to 52 knots , and waves anywhere from 10 to 35 feet high.She was loaded with 26,116 tons of taconite pellets at the Burlington Northern Railroad , Dock # 1 .
Her destination was Zug Island on the Detroit River .
There were 29 crew members who perished in the sinking .
This was nominated for the Song Of The Year Grammy , but it was beaten by Barry Manilow 's `` I Write The Songs . ''
-LRB- thanks , frank - pembroke pines , FL , for above 3 -RRB- Ohio-based Great Lakes Brewery produces a beer called Edmund Fitzgerald Porter .
-LRB- thanks , Douglas - Waterloo , England -RRB- An initial investigation suggested that the crew was partly to blame for the disaster by not securing the ship 's hatches .
Lightfoot 's song reflected the original findings in the verse , '' ... at 7 p.m. a main hatchway gave in . ''
However , in 2010 a Canadian documentary claimed to have proven the crew of the ship was not responsible for the tragedy .
It concluded that there is little evidence that failure to secure the ship 's hatches caused the sinking.Lightfoot said he intended to change it to reflect the new findings .
`` I 'm sincerely grateful to yap films and their program The Dive Detectives for putting together compelling evidence that the tragedy was not a result of crew error , '' he said in a release .
`` This finally vindicates , and honours , not only all of the crew who lost their lives , but also the family members who survived them . ''
In the US , this was held out of the # 1 spot by Rod Stewart 's `` Tonight 's The Night . ''
Paul Gross hoped to use this tune for his episode of the TV show Due South , `` Mountie on the Bounty . ''
He discreetly tried to secure the rights to use the song , but out of respect for the families who wished not to be reminded of the tragedy he did n't pursue the option aggressively .
He instead wrote the similarly themed song `` 32 down On The Robert MacKenzie . ''
-LRB- thanks , Billy - Plymouth , NH -RRB- In 1970 , baseball commissioner Bud Selig 's co-founding partner in the Brewers was fellow Milwaukee businessman Edmund B. Fitzgerald , a patron of Milwaukee arts and civic projects , and the son of a family that owned Great Lakes shipyards .
In 1958 , the freighter SS Edmund Fitzgerald was named for Edmund B. 's father .
Fitzgerald later became a professor at Vanderbilt University .
