Belgian born Wally De Backer is an Indie Rock singer-songwriter who records under the name of Gotye .
He moved with his family to Australia at the age of 2 and has been releasing music there since 2001 .
De Backer achieved a breakthrough with his second album Like Drawing Blood , which was voted # in the Triple J listeners poll of the Best Album of 2006 .
This is the second single from De Backer 's third album , Making Mirrors .
The LP was released in the summer of 2011 and went to # 1 in Australia .
`` Somebody '' was both produced and written by Gotye in his parents ' barn on the Mornington Peninsula , south-east of Melbourne .
It finds Gotye addressing a past lover , reminiscing about their relationship and break-up .
The song draws from the aftermath and memory of several relationships , but he told Rolling Stone Australia that one does resound louder than the others .
`` There is an ex-girlfriend I know . ''
he admitted .
`` It was five-six years ago .
It was n't a nasty breakup , but it was messy in the sense that we hurt each other more than we needed to because it was n't a clean break .
I guess it 's closest to what the chorus is about .
We both realized we had to move on and we have n't seen each other since . ''
`` Somebody '' was a commercial success , topping the charts in a number of countries including Australia , New Zealand , Germany , Belgium and the Netherlands .
It was the second best selling single of 2011 in Australia .
The Canadian indie band , Walk Off the Earth , recorded an unusual cover of the song .
The only instrumentation on their version is a single guitar , played simultaneously by five people using different strings and surfaces .
Like Gotye 's original , it became a YouTube sensation , viewed well over a million times and becoming the most popular cover song ever posted on YouTube.This version of the song was most likely produced in a studio and mimed for the video , as the microphones are too far away to capture such a clean vocal sound .
WOTE did perform the song live on the show Ellen , and this version sounded significantly rougher than the version in the famous video .
Despite the likely lip-synching , the video is quite compelling and very clever .
So , how do you pronounce `` Gotye '' ?
`` Got ya '' ?
Nope , apparently it 's `` Go-tee-yay '' like fashion designer Gaultier .
Kimbra was not Gotye 's initial choice to provide the female vocals on this song .
`` There was a vocalist who was quite high profile in Australia who was all set to do it and then canceled the night before we were going to do the vocal session , '' the Belgian-Australian divulged to Jam !
Music .
`` In fact , we met at a festival months later and she was just like , ` Maybe that was a mistake , ' '' he added with a laugh.Gotye spent five months looking for the right voice for the song , even trying his girlfriend , Australian singer-songwriter Tash Parker , but her voice was n't right for the tune .
Eventually , Kimbra was recommended by the song 's mixer after he 'd produced her debut album Vows .
`` Kimbra has so much she can do with her voice , '' said Gotye to Jam !
Music .
`` On the one hand I feel like she 's able to channel all these great jazz vocalists but then with ` Somebody That I Used To Know ' what I was really looking for , I just wanted it to be raw and direct .
I wanted to hear singing sort of trying to tap into the feeling of it and she did that . ''
The song powered to # 1 on the Hot 100 in the week following its performances on both Glee and Saturday Night Live .
Gotye became the first Belgium-born act to top the Hot 100 since the Singing Nun spent four weeks at # 1 with `` Dominique '' in 1963 .
He was also the first Australian-raised act to reach the peak position since Savage Garden reigned for four weeks in 2000 with `` I Knew I Loved You .
`` The song replaced Fun 's `` We Are Young '' at # 1 .
This was the first time that two rock-based tracks had been atop the Hot 100 back-to-back since Matchbox Twenty 's `` Bent '' succeeded Vertical Horizon 's `` Everything You Want '' In July 2000 .
One of the reasons for the song 's huge success is its crossover appeal .
It was the first ever tune to top all three of the Hot 100 , Dance/Club Play Songs and Alternative Songs since the latter list premiered the week of Sept. 10 , 1988 .
This was the most streamed song of 2012 on the online music service , Spotify , just ahead of Carly Rae Jepsen 's `` Call Me Maybe . ''
Making Mirrors was the second most streamed album behind David Guetta 's Nothing But The Beat .
This was the biggest-selling single of 2012 in the US after being downloaded 6.8 million times .
Carly Rae Jepsen 's `` Call Me Maybe '' was second with 6.5 million downloads .
The same two songs were also the top sellers in the UK in 2012 with `` Somebody ... '' selling 1.3 million followed by `` Call Me Maybe , '' with sales of 1.1 million .
The `` duet where the guy and girl each talk about their side of a troubled relationship '' genre has been around for a while - Stevie Nicks and Don Henley had a hit with one in 1981 with `` Leather And Lace '' - but they are rarely huge hits .
It did n't take long for another one to top the Hot 100 , however : Pink and Nate Ruess hit the top spot in 2013 with their he-said , she-said song Just Give Me A Reason .
The song features New Zealand singer-songwriter Kimbra , who won her country 's Critics ' Choice awards in 2011 ; the award is intended to recognize and nurture up-coming talent .
Gotye did n't begin writing this song as a duet , but after he finished the first verse , he realized he had nowhere to go with the character he was writing about , and needed to introduce another voice .
The song samples the guitar break from Brazilian musician Luiz Bonfá 's track `` Seville . ''
The classical guitarist died in 2001 but was generously given a co-writing credit by Gotye .
According to Australia 's Courier Mail , Bonfá also inspired the song 's first few lyrics ; Gotye inked an early deal awarding 45 % of the song 's royalties to the Brazilian 's estate .
Gotye made his US television debut on Jimmy Kimmel Live on February 1 , 2012 when he performed this song .
American Songwriter magazine asked Gotye why he thought the song has proved so successful ?
He replied : `` I think it 's the kind of slow build and drama that it has , the two-part story , and the multiple perspective aspect that has struck people .
It 's written openly enough that it expresses that confusion you can have after a broken relationship , and the way you can feel emotionally quite up and down.You can feel nostalgic and rosily melancholy , in a way .
But sometimes we often feel quite bitter about things , when you have nothing to do with that relationship or maybe with that person anymore , at least not actively .
It can be quite a confusing feeling .
So maybe the way the song expresses those feelings appears to strike people as quite true , and quite relevant with their experiences . ''
The song 's music video was directed , produced and edited by Natasha Pincus and features Gotye and Kimbra without clothing , but with body paint .
Gotye told MTV News the clip presented some challenges , even after the filming had finished for the day .
`` We shot it over two very full days ... I quite clearly remember driving home at 9 a.m. , after shooting all day , in a bathrobe , with bodypaint all over my face , and going through McDonald 's drive-thru , '' he recalled .
`` I ordered a coffee to make sure I did n't crash on the way home .
And the girl working there , she did n't even bat an eyelid .
I guess it 's a regular thing down in Hastings -LSB- Australia -RSB- McDonald 's . ''
The poignant break-up song was performed in a different context during the `` Big Brother '' episode of Glee where it was sung as a duet by Darren Criss , who plays Blaine Anderson , and guest star Matt Bomer as his onscreen older brother .
Bomer told TVLine that his role in the show came about after suggesting ` Somebody That ... ' for Glee : `` I had heard the Gotye song and I asked -LSB- series co-creator -RSB- Ryan -LSB- Murphy -RSB- if he ever thought of using that as a duet on the show , '' he recalled .
`` And he said he had .
And then a week later I got a text from him asking me if I wanted to come on the show to sing it .
And I said , ` Absolutely ! '
`` Gotye blasted Criss and Bomer 's cover of the song in an interview with the Sunday Mail .
`` They did such a faithful arrangement of the instruments but the vocals were that pop Glee style , ultra dry , sounded pretty tuned and the rock has no real sense , like it 's playing to you from a cardboard box , '' he said .
Gotye later backtracked on his comments , insisting : `` I thought it was really clever to transpose the song to two guys ... It was a great idea . ''
Kimbra was born on March 27 , 1990 and the song 's accession to the # 1 spot made her the first female artist born in the '90s to top the Hot 100 .
Until Kimbra 's reign , Dev , who was born on July 2 , 1989 , had been the most recent born woman to reach the summit .
She was a featured act on Far East Movement 's chart-topper `` Like a G6 . ''
A lot of people discovered this tune through Shazam .
The Hollywood Reporter recounted in June 2012 that `` Somebody '' was the first song to rack up one million tags in one week on the musical-recognition mobile app and has been purchased by a huge 8 percent of all Shazam users .
Making Mirrors won Album of the Year at the 2012 ARIAs , Australia 's equivalent of the Grammies .
Gotye won three other awards at the same ceremony - Best Male Artist , Best Australian Live Act and Best Pop Release .
The song won Record of the Year at the 2013 Grammy Awards .
Gotye was presented with his prize by Prince , who appeared sporting black sunglasses and a white cane .
`` A little bit lost for words , to receive an award from the man standing behind us with the cane , '' said the Australian singer-songwriter on receiving his statue .
`` Many years listening to this man 's music growing up , and a big reason I was inspired to make music .
Thank you .
`` Gotye nabbed two other awards at the same ceremony , Best Pop Duo/Group Performance alongside Kimbra for this song and the Best Alternative Music Album for Making Mirrors .
