This song is lead singer Kevin Cronin 's response after he found out his wife was cheating on him .
In the song he says he 'll keep on loving her no matter what .
Cronin stated this on VH1 's Top 40 Love Songs show .
Before REO Speedwagon recorded this , they were known as a hard rock band .
Keyboardist Neal Doughty initially had concerns about recording this love ballad , but his fears were allayed when this proved to be a breakthrough hit for the band .
He recalled to Noisecreep in a 2011 interview : `` During the making of the Hi Infidelity album , most of REO Speedwagon was going through some kind of personal turmoil .
I 'm talking about divorces and all sorts of crazy stuff .
I remember when Kevin played me ` Keep on Loving You ' for the first time I was a bit apprehensive about recording it .
You have to remember , up to that point we were known as a rock band and here was this soft song.I was n't sure how our hardcore fans would react to a ballad .
But then Gary Richrath pulled out his guitar , cranked his amplifier to 11 and started playing along with Kevin .
From that point , it felt right .
Gary and Kevin had such different writing and playing styles and it worked so great on ` Keep on Loving You . '
Once that song hit radio , it exploded .
We finally had the hit that our label and we had wanted for years .
It changed our lives forever . ''
This was # 1 for one week in March 1981 on the US Billboard Hot 100 , the 500th song to top the chart .
REO Speedwagon was one of the first Rock bands to score big with power ballads in the '80s .
They had the good fortune of being one of the hottest bands in America when MTV launched on August 1 , 1981 , so the network played their videos , even though they were low-budget affairs .
With director Bruce Gowers , they shot four videos in one day , including the clip for `` Keep On Loving You , '' which lead singer Kevin Cronin said `` made us look like even bigger dorks than we were .
`` The video showed Cronin with a hot female psychiatrist .
He explained in the book I Want My MTV : `` Someone figured out that you had to ahve a hot chick in the video .
The psychiatrist was this gorgeous model with librarian glasses .
She was out of our league , big-time .
`` Most of the band 's videos were dominated by performance footage , and they were n't photogenic enough to compete on the network with the likes of Duran Duran , Van Halen and other acts who did a better job matching a picture to the sound .
A few years into MTV 's existence , REO was out .
The heart-tugging Love song has been covered by a wide array of artists including The Donnas , Evan Dando and Lisa Loeb and been featured in numerous films , beginning with the 1982 movie The Last American Virgin .
