Originally titled `` Do n't Lose Your Faith In Me , '' this was released as a as a maxi single EP exclusively on iTunes on May 3 , 2011 .
Frontman Adam Lazzara told Alternative Addiction the band took more time recording this track than most of the others on the album .
`` That song actually took the longest to come together , there were probably like 4 or 5 different drafts with the lyrics and the melodies , '' he explained . ''
-LSB- Guitarist -RSB- John -LSB- Nolan -RSB- had the idea to leave a lot of space in between the verses which is something that we had n't really done before .
From there it just kind of took off . ''
The visual follows Piliero 's clip for `` I Wan na Go '' and the Britney fans amongst you might have spotted a reference to that video - One of the cat 's discarded audition scripts is for the fantasy Spears sequel , Crossroads 2 : Cross Harder , which is also on the marquee in `` I Wan na Go . ''
`` I made the TBS video right after the Britney video , '' he told MTV News .
`` I felt like the cat could exist in the same world as the ' I Wan na Go ' world , so I thought it would be a fun little Easter egg .
Also , Adam -LSB- Lazzara -RSB- from TBS texted me after watching the Britney video , and I did n't even realize that during the paparazzi fight when she swings the mic around -- that is something that Adam does all the time , which is something I was very conscious of -- but I did n't realize the scene happened in front of a store called Keaton 's , and his son is called Keaton ! ''
The Chris Marrs Piliero directed video is a social commentary about the fleeting nature of Internet fame , and features a fake cat trying to make it in Hollywood .
`` It was an idea that I had floating around in my head , and when I listened to the song ... the meaning of the song clicked in my brain , '' the director said of the clip to MTV News .
`` People just love cat videos , '' he added .
`` And I just thought it would be fun to see what it would like if a cat had the brain to be like , ` Sh -- , I 'm a big deal . ' ''
