This is the title track from the thirteenth studio album by American Heavy Metal band Megadeth .
It marked the recorded return of bassist and founding member Dave Ellefson , who returned to performing live with Megadeth in early 2010 .
It was the first Megadeth studio album since 2001 's The World Needs a Hero , on which Ellefson had played .
The song and album title has several levels of meaning , which Mustaine , who started playing the guitar at the age of 13 , revealed to Rolling Stone : `` I was born on September 13th ; this is my thirteenth record .
It just seemed like it was the right thing to do to call it TH1RT3EN . ''
Ellefson discussed guitarist Chris Broderick 's contribution to this song with MusicRadar.com : `` Chris Broderick did a great job with the acoustic and clean-sounding electric guitars .
As a bassist , I love playing to those kinds of tones .
They 're very open , and they let me be creative with the licks and the lines .
It 's like bass playing from the 1970s , or even the '60s .
James Jamerson , the great Motown bassist -- I definitely tried to cop some of his groove , a very flowing style . ''
TH1RT3EN was recorded at Megadeth mainman Dave Mustaine 's Vic 's Garage studio in San Marcos , California with producer Johnny K , who has previously worked with Disturbed , Machine Head and Staind , among others .
Ellefson told MusicRadar.com that this song `` really epitomizes the story of Megadeth . ''
He explained : `` Before starting the record , Johnny K had read Dave 's autobiography , and I think that helped him understand Dave 's psyche , as well as what Megadeth is all about.As the song was being developed musically , the words started to spill out onto the page , largely from Johnny 's conversations with Dave .
If you ever wanted to hear a song that summed up the arc of Megadeth as a band , 13 is it .
`` He added : `` The song ends on such a high .
Megadeth has n't had a big , theatrical kind of song since ` In My Darkest Hour , ' so now we 've got another one with 13 .
It 's the perfect ending to a great album . ''
