The song title refers to a belief held by some religious individuals that the Devil himself planted dinosaur bones deep into the Earth to dissuade and confuse humanity .
Asked by Ultimate-Guitar .
com why the band named their fifth album after this cut , guitarist Jerry Cantrell replied : `` It 's a song ; we came up with the song first and we started thinking about what to call the record .
It was just an oddball , cool title .
I can guarantee you nobody else has ever called a record this . ''
Cantrell told Noisecreep that he 's sick of the hypocrisy that 's he feels has taken over many facets of organized religion .
`` I think there 's overwhelming evidence that things are n't working right now , '' he said .
`` We need to start growing up as a people .
When you 're teaching people that being gay is a mortal sin , yet a good portion of the people teaching this are fu -- ing kids , there 's a huge problem .
`` It 's insane when a religion tells you it 's OK to strap a bomb on yourself to blow someone else up because they believe in something different , '' he continued .
`` If a religion is teaching you that it 's OK to hurt somebody , exclude somebody , dominate somebody -- I have a problem with it .
` The Devil Put Dinosaurs Here ' just speaks to the lamer parts of how those things are taught and the sh -- ty things we do to each other because of our different beliefs . ''
The song contains the lyrics , `` The devil put dinosaurs here .
Jesus do n't like a queer .
No problem with faith .
Just fear . ''
Cantrell explained to Revolver magazine : `` There are two things you never want to get into a conversation or argument about : politics and religion .
But f -- k , I guess we 're going to be talking about this for a while .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- '' He added : `` Read a fu -- ing paper .
What I 've seen is the most basic message to most faith systems is in contradiction with how it gets applied .
The human element seems to f -- k it up .
It seems to f -- k up the basic truths of acceptance , loving your brother , helping each other out , not trying to kill each other or steal each other 's s -- t. Those are all pretty good ideas .
And most of your major religions have those things as basic tenets of the belief system .
It always amazes me that some of the most hateful and hurtful things are done in the name of some sort of belief system . ''
The Devil Put Dinosaurs Here album debuted at # 2 on The Billboard album chart .
Alice in Chains was last in the Top Two with its self-titled 1995 set , which topped that year 's November 25 tally .
