The lead single from Set You Free was penned by Allan with Matt Warren and Hillary Lindsey .
The album title comes from a line in the song , which the singer explained is indicative of the theme of the entire LP .
`` Every storm runs out of rain , '' said Allan , `` so I think that 's what this album is about , is me coming up for air . ''
The song was released to Country radio on September 17 , 2012 .
The music video was directed by Stephen Shepherd and filmed at an old slaughterhouse in East Nashville .
`` It looks like an apartment complex with the walls blown out of it , '' said Allan to The Boot .
`` We shot up on the roof ; we put the whole band up there underneath some rain machines . ''
Hillary Lindsey also provided the harmony vocals on the track .
It marked the first time a woman had provided the backing vocals on one of Allan 's singles .
Set You Free was Allan 's ninth studio album .
It became his first # 1 on the Billboard 200 when it debuted atop the list with sales of 106,000 .
It was the first time that an artist named Gary had topped the album chart .
We note , however , that certain natives of the city of Gary in Indiana have reached the peak position , namely Michael Jackson and his siblings .
It was Matt Warren who came up with the idea for the song after a frustrating day .
`` Matt was kind of going through a hard time , '' Allan told The Boot .
`` He was going through a dry spell , like all writers do , and he had n't been writing many songs .
He was doing yard work one day , weed eating , and he hit a rock and it hit the house and then bounced back and hit him in the forehead .
He was pissed , and he called me and talked to me about it , saying , ` I 'm so sick of mowing lawns .
We need a hit . '
... He had the line , ` Every storm runs out of rain . ' ''
Asked by The Boot why the song has done so well , Allan replied : `` I never watch the charts ; it 's something I ca n't control and it drives me batty .
But it 's been so long since we had anything out there , I 've watched every inch of what ` Every Storm ' is doing , and it 's been a blast to watch it grow .
I like to watch what resonates with people and what they gravitate toward ... It is a song about hope , and the timing , with the recent storms and floods , our country needs hope .
I think that 's why it 's doing so well . ''
Matt Warren has co-written a number of songs for Allan , including this and two other cuts on Set You Free .
Warren used to sell merchandise for the singer on the road , but he was n't very good at the job .
`` I remember when I let him go , '' recalled Allan , `` I said , ` Man , you ca n't do this for me , but I 'll write with ya .
I love the way you write . '
He used to write in the back lounge , and I think this is like eight cuts with me , or nine cuts , over the years . ''
The song was Allan 's fifth Country # 1 as an artist but his first chart-topper as a co-writer .
