Vocalist and chief songwriter John Cooper told StereoTruth.net : `` Typically I do n't write in a way where a song can have an open ended interpretation , but this is a song about loss and can be applied to a whole range of situations .
It has a gist of regret where you wish you had done things differently and it could be about mourning the loss of someone who died or a relationship .
It seems sad , but it 's strangely hopeful because it gives off the idea that you can change your life right here and now -- you have been given a second chance so you can remember to live and love with no regrets . ''
John Cooper chose for some time not to share what it was that inspired this song .
Eventually , during a concert at the Target Center in Minneapolis in November of 2010 , he opened up to the crowd the true story behind the tune , which he said was very special to him .
`` Listen up while I tell you a story about a young girl and a young guy who found themselves in a hard situation , '' he said .
`` They did n't know what to do when they found out that she was pregnant ; they were young , they did n't have any money , they were scared , they did n't want to tell anybody , they did n't know what to do , and the only option that they could see was to terminate the pregnancy .
So that 's what they decided to do ... they went to a clinic , they had the procedure done , and at first they felt relieved that all their problems had gone away . ''
`` But then something happened that they did not expect , '' he continued , `` and that 's over the next few weeks , which turned into a few months , they began to feel an intense sadness ... and a pain and an agony and a guilt that would n't go away .
They did n't know what to do , so they finally went to see a counsellor ; they said look - tell us what to do , we just do n't know , and the counsellor made a suggestion .
The counsellor said here 's what you need to do - stop acting like you had a procedure , and act like you had a death in the family .
So the couple went home and they made three decisions ; number one , they decided to have a funeral service for the baby ; number two , they bought a tiny little headstone ; and the last decision to make was what to name the baby .
After a couple weeks they finally decided they would call her ... Lucy . ''
This is one of a number of songs that deal with loss on Awake .
Cooper explained to Christianity Today magazine : `` I have dealt with a lot of loss in my life .
My mom died when I was 14 and that same year , my best friend died .
There have been times in my life things seemed difficult , but it has caused me to be retrospective and to learn how to deal with loss or emptiness - that feeling that you do n't have anything to live for . ''
