Nashville singer-songwriter Jamie Floyd , Peter Sallis and Phillip LaRue penned this tune , which was inspired by the hurt Floyd felt having just come out of a relationship .
She told The Boot , `` Pete said to me , ` Jamie , you do n't need to be so upset because in reality , if you really think about it , it only ever really works out once . '
I love writing sad songs .
I love digging in and going to that dark place .
To purge myself of all that hurt , I was like , ` We got ta write a song about how it only happens once .
We got ta call it ` Once . ' ''
Floyd and Sallis are songwriting partners but they 'd never written with LaRue before .
They set up a writing session but found themselves not getting anywhere .
Floyd recalled to The Boot : `` I had given them a line to maybe go with the song we were writing : ` You were a wait so worth the price of all the hurt . '
It could go either way .
It was n't exactly happy , but it was n't sad either.Pete 's like , ` Why do n't we try the ` Once ' idea ? '
So , we tell Phillip about how the odds are that it only works out once , so when you fail , those were your odds anyway .
Pete suggested that we use the line from earlier as the first line , and I was sold on that .
But then he was like , ` Let 's make it happy .
Let 's talk about the one time you do find it and how you have to make the most of it and give it everything you have . '
`` With Sallis and Floyd scrapping over the lyrics whilst La Rue penned the melody , the song gradually evolved .
Said Floyd : `` We were talking it out , step by step , and it was like when you find that with someone , nothing else matters anymore and you have to run with it .
We compromised on a lot of it .
You 'll hear the lines like , ` You were a wait so worth the price of all the hurt inside me , ' which sounds a little deeper than the rest of the song - it 's a little lighter and more optimistic like the next line , ` just when the sun was setting on my heart . '
`` It 's always my intention that if makes me feel something , I feel like it will make a listener feel something .
A lot of the fight that we had was over that .
It 's funny that the song talks about let 's fight for this and , ironically , we fought for it ! ''
