This is a remake of the benefit single for victims of famine in Africa in 1985 .
The new version was recorded in support of Haitian earthquake relief .
Prior to the quake that devastated the country on January 12 , 2010 , Quincy Jones and Lionel Richie had planned to organize a re-recording of `` We Are the World '' on January 28 , 2010 - the 25th anniversary of the original recording of the song .
However , because of the disaster these plans were postponed .
The new version of the song was recorded on February 1 , 2010 with proceeds initially going to the newly formed charity We Are the World Foundation LLC , before being distributed to Haiti .
Here are the artists who took part : Akon , India.Arie , Patti Austin , Tony Bennett , Justin Bieber , Bone Thugs-n-Harmony , Ethan Bortnick , Brandy , Jeff Bridges , Zac Brown , Kristian Bush , Natalie Cole , Harry Connick Jr. , Kid Cudi , Miley Cyrus , Snoop Dogg , Drake , Earth Wind & Fire , Faith Evans , Melanie Fiona , Jamie Foxx , Sean Garrett , Tyrese Gibson , Josh Groban , Anthony Hamilton , Keri Hilson , Julianne Hough , Jennifer Hudson , Enrique Iglesias , LL Cool J , Randy Jackson , Taj Jackson , Taryll Jackson , TJ Jackson , Al Jardine , Joe Jonas , Kevin Jonas , Janet Jackson , Kanye West , Nick Jonas , Rashida Jones , Gladys Knight , Adam Levine , Jimmy Jean Louis , Benji Madden , Joel Madden , Mary Mary , Katharine McPhee , Jason Mraz , Mya , Jennifer Nettles , Orianthi , Freda Payne , Pink , A. R. Rahman , Nicole Richie , Raphael Saadiq , Carlos Santana , Nicole Scherzinger , Isaac Slade , Trey Songz , Musiq Soulchild , Jordin Sparks , Barbra Streisand , T-Pain , Robin Thicke , Rob Thomas , Usher , Vince Vaughn , Lil Wayne , Kanye West , Will.i.am , Anne Wilson , Brian Wilson , Nancy Wilson , BeBe Winans , Lionel Richie , Wyclef Jean , Celine Dion , Quincy Jones , RedOne , Ricky Minor.A couple of quick tid-bits : At 83 years old , Tony Bennett was the elder statesmen on the recording , while 15-year-old Justin Bieber who opened the song was the youngest.Miley Cyrus is the only artist to feature on both this song and the `` Everybody Hurts '' Haiti benefit singles .
Grammy-winning producer RedOne , who is best known for his collaborations with Lady Gaga , told MTV News that when he received a phone call from Lionel Richie and Quincy Jones , asking him to produce a remake of `` We Are the World , '' he was in complete shock .
`` I was like , ` Oh my God ! ' ''
he said .
`` This is Lionel and Quincy , you know , the fathers of music , of hits , of music , of charity , of everything .
It was big .
So that night , before I started working on it , I had nightmares about the whole track .
` They did n't like it .
Oh , they need a new track . '
But , thank God , they loved it . ''
RedOne added : `` I just keep the class of the original one .
But I did n't want to change any course .
I did n't want to mess it up , because it 's too good .
I tried to keep it on the same level and tried to make it sound more now and current .
I kept the whole chord progressions , the feeling and the vibe , but brought fresher sounds that are more now . ''
The song premiered on US TV channel NBC on February 12 during their coverage of the opening ceremony of the 2010 Winter Olympics .
Added to the original song 's inspirational lyrics are a newly penned hip-hop break penned by LL Cool J that makes reference to the Haitian earthquake .
`` Mr. -LSB- Quincy -RSB- Jones just called me and asked me if I would take a shot at writing the hip-hop section or the rap section of the song , '' LL Cool J told MTV News .
`` And I took a shot at it and recorded it .
`` Will.i.am and Kanye West also wrote another section of the rapped middle eight .
The whole rap section starts with Cool J and Snoop Dogg and Will.i.am and Xzibit and West and Lil Wayne , then goes into Will.i.am and West trading lines with each other .
Rapper Lil Wayne said in the media room after the recording that he was surprised when told he would be singing Bob Dylan 's part from the original .
He said : `` When I got here , I was like what am I doing , will I be rapping or what ?
Then they told me I was doing Bob Dylan 's part and I was like , you guys are real good comedians .
But I approached it the best way I knew how .
Did I do a better job than Bob Dylan ?
Hell , no .
But after I did his part , it hit me that this was something way more important than I could ever imagine . ''
Despite passing away in June of the previous year , Michael Jackson not only features on the hook , but he also makes a cameo appearance on the music video , in which he appears posthumously in a split-screen with his sister Janet Jackson joining him .
The idea of putting him in the project came from Michael 's mother Katherine Jackson and Janet .
Richie said to Access Hollywood of Michael 's duet with Janet , `` It was all put together with fabulous choreography .
It 's magical . ''
-LRB- The late King of Pop co-wrote the original `` We Are The World '' with Lionel Richie -RRB- .
Executive producer Randy Phillips told Billboard magazine about the talent booking for the song : `` When you 're doing these things , one person tells you an act 's in , another person says they are n't , it 's always a fluid thing until you get there .
All of these things come together like that , much of it at the last minute .
-LSB- Barbra -RSB- Streisand came in the day before .
Of the list we went after , I 'd say we ended up with 80 % of the people we wanted . ''
