This Cool & Dre produced track is the fourth single from American rapper Lil Wayne 's seventh studio album , Rebirth .
The video for this song was one of nine that Lil Wayne shot over the space of 48 hours in the weekend before he was due to be incarcerated on gun possession charges .
-LRB- As it was the sentencing was delayed so Weezy could have some dental surgery -RRB- .
Cash Money chiefs Ronald `` Slim '' Williams and Baby a.k.a. .
The Birdman enlisted video director David Rousseau to shoot the nine videos and the director and his crew started setting up around 9 a.m .
on Friday February 5th and finished at around 8 a.m. on the Sunday .
Roussseau told MTV News : `` We shot some sh -- from the We Are Young Money album .
We knew what our deadline was .
We 're trying to get maximum coverage for Wayne .
Most of the time we only shot Wayne 's verses - we 'll finish the rest of the videos off in the next couple of weeks .
`` Rousseau added that the Cash Money executives contacted him a fortnight previously about his huge assignment .
`` We were put on hold , '' Rousseau explained .
`` Cash Money said , ` This is our deadline .
This is a hard deadline . '
It was basically a ` Mission Impossible ' -LSB- scenario -RSB- : This is your mission if you choose to accept it .
Everybody is onboard because everybody knows what 's at stake .
Unlike T.I. and some of these other guys that 's disappeared while they were in , the point is to keep Wayne -LSB- visible -RSB- on TV and everything for whatever time he 's in .
There was a plan in action .
Slim and Baby really could foresee that .
He 's at the height of his career , you ca n't let that momentum slip . ''
Wayne plays bass guitar on this track , which has more of a rock feel to it than Weezy 's previous more urban sounding single , `` On Fire . ''
Dre explained to MTV News : '' ` Da Da Da ' is some rock sh -- , but it 's some really hot sh -- .
And not rock sh -- .
I do n't wan na say ` rock sh -- . '
It 's everything too .
He plays the bass on the record , he sings on it , spits on it .
It 's something Rick James would bug out on .
It 's hot . ''
The video was filmed on the roof of the Marlin Hotel in Miami in a similar vein to the clip for U2 's `` Where the Streets Have No Name . ''
The New Orleans rapper is backed by hip hop group ยก Mayday !
, whose keyboardist Plex Luthor told MTV News : '' -LSB- The video -RSB- was set up like a reality show .
They followed us out of the tour bus , up the stairs and then we jumped on the stage and started playing .
It was fun , man .
They was trying to re-create , spin off of ` The Streets Have No Name ' by U2 - the one where they were performing on the rooftop and people start gathering around .
-LSB- Wayne 's video -RSB- was doing something parallel to that on the rooftop of the Marlin .
They had helicopter shots and all . ''
