A self-described peace - and people - loving person , Bo Bice wrote this song over a decade before it appeared on his 2007 CD See The Light .
`` That song I 've played everywhere from bars and clubs to churches , '' he says .
`` And now it was the first single off the album , so I found it just quite ironic .
I 'm a Southern cat , so I love Southern culture .
But I 've also lived all around the world .
So I think that 's one of the songs that had a lot to do with just experiences and travel and things like that in my life , to where it really is a song just about , Hey man , can we all just get along ?
Can I get a witness ?
And I love it .
It 's a powerful song . ''
Having recorded his first CD with his first band , Purge in 1995 , and working with RCA Records on his first post-American Idol CD , Bice now records for his own independent label , SugarMoney , which makes the `` control freak '' side of him quite happy.Bice : `` You 've got more control , and there 's more responsibility .
But that does n't mean I have to do everything by myself .
There 's just different projects that have different means .
I might team up with this huge label and partner up with them on a project , and then I might do something solo .
But the cool thing for me is I 'm not trying to wear a lot of hats .
I know my limits , I know my boundaries .
And right now it 's nice to be able to do this , put this project together .
But there 's also going to come a time in a few months where I 'll want to flip that switch and just turn back into writer mode .
You try to do that stuff on and off , where it used to be you could record an album , and then you spent months writing , and then you put a new one together .
For me , I just try to do that all the time .
We just do writing on the road , and record on the road , and we do different things .
So when I get home , I just spend time with my family , and it 's a sanctuary , and I 'm able to kind of just chill out . ''
`` Having an independent label is a lot of work .
But you also have to think about , in many ways it 's the same thing I was doing before I went on Idol .
So it 's not really more work .
I 'm not working any harder than I did before I got on Idol .
I think maybe a lot of people think that when you get to a certain level that you should just kind of like let your handlers do this , that , and the other .
That does n't mean I do everything myself .
I 'm smart enough to know that you 're only as strong as your team .
I surround myself with people that work hard , they love to work , love what we do , and take time to appreciate that we 're out here and to have fans , and to do what we love to do for a living .
Because we 're real honored to be able to do that .
People pay their hard earned money for our music and to come and see us play , and so it 's a responsibility to get to go out there and to play music and to do what you love to do .
So I do n't consider it too much more stress or too much more anything . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Bo Bice . -RRB-
