The Louisiana singer/songwriter Tony Joe White acquainted America with the Southern cuisine polk salad on this track from his first album , which became a hit single in the summer of 1969 .
Polk salad is made from the leaves of the polkweed plant , but is not something you 'll find in grocery stores since it 's toxic - you have to boil it a few times before you can eat it .
White explains in the song 's folksy introduction that polk is `` a plant that grows out in the woods and the fields , and it looks something like a turnip green . ''
He then introduces Annie , a hardscrabble woman who made polk salad for her family , since that 's all they could afford to eat .
White grew up in Oak Grove , Louisiana near the Mississippi River , and wrote what he called `` swamp songs '' about the folks from the area .
`` Annie , she could have been one of maybe three or four girls along that river there because all the girls were kinda tomboys , '' he said in our 2013 interview .
`` They loved to fish , climb trees shoot rifles .
That kind of stuff .
So Annie could have been anybody .
It 's just like ` Old Man Willis , ' ` Roosevelt and Ira Lee . '
All those were real people that I grew up with . ''
This being the late '60s , many listeners thought that `` polk salad '' was code for marijuana .
White explained : `` The early days on the tour we was out and it was a big hit , a lot of the hippie festivals , flower children and everybody , they would bring deep bags of grass back to the dressing room or back in my tent .
And they said , ` We brought you a little polk . '
They all thought polk salad was marijuana .
And I was , like , ` That 's not the kind I 'm talking about . '
Anyway , everybody got it after a while . ''
Recorded at RCA Victor Studios in Nashville , the Black and White album was produced by Billy Swan , who had a # 1 hit as a solo artist in 1974 with `` I Can Help . ''
Musicians on this track were David Briggs -LRB- organ -RRB- , Norbert Putnam -LRB- bass -RRB- and Jerry Carrigan -LRB- drums -RRB- .
White played the guitar and harmonica .
White does enjoy a good polk salad .
`` I ate a bunch of it growing up on the cotton farm , '' he told us .
`` It grows wild , and you pick it a certain time during the year , and you boil it and cook it like greens .
My mother said it had a lot of iron in it and stuff for us kids , so it was something that tasted real good to me back then .
I still eat some every spring . ''
Elvis Presley played this at many of his concerts , including a performance on February 18 , 1970 at the International Hotel in Las Vegas that was included on his live album On Stage .
For Tony Joe White , this was a thrill , since he performed a lot of Elvis songs when he first started out .
Elvis arranged for White , who was living in Memphis at the time , to fly to Vegas so he could be in the audience for the concerts that were compiled into On Stage .
`` They recorded it , like , six , seven nights in a row , so every night after the show , we would sit back in the dressing room and talk and hang out , '' White told us .
`` He had an old acoustic guitar back there and he would always get me to play him an old blues lick or something .
And then he would try and learn it .
He loved guitar but he really did n't play it a lot .
He treated me really good , though , every time I was around him . ''
This live version of the song was released it as a single , issued in America in 1973 .
