Steel Magnolia , which is the boyfriend/girlfriend duo of Joshua Scott Jones and Meghan Linsey , got a big break when they won the CMT show Can You Duet ?
This was the song they performed when they tried out for the show , and it got the attention of the judges .
In our interview with Joshua Scott Jones , he explained why they chose this song , which he and Linsey wrote together : `` Well , we originally went in there , we played a Dwight Yoakum song .
And then they asked if we had anything of our own .
And that was just the first thing that popped into our heads .
During editing they did n't show you that , though .
They did n't show us playing Dwight Yoakum , they showed us doing our song . ''
This is the first song on Steel Magnolia 's debut album and very often the first song they play at concerts .
Jones explained , `` I think that 's always been a great opener for our live show .
There 's a certain energy about the song and it speaks a lot about our sound .
So it 's a good introduction any time we play out live , because it 's back and forth , equal parts , come together on the choruses .
And then the big finish for the bridge section kind of boogies , and then it hits that big note , and it just encompasses a lot about us .
I think it 's a great introduction song . ''
Jones told us the story behind this song : '' ` Ooh La La ' originally started out based around guitar chords , the riff around that , it 's just an inversion of B. I was trying to look for a different sound on the guitar , kind of like different chords .
I was trying to find new territory that was n't really familiar but still sounded good to the ear .
So we started writing that thing and I actually started that one off in Louisiana , Meghan 's home town in Ponchatoula .
it does n't sound like a Louisiana-inspired song at all , but that 's where we wrote it.So the next half of it we moved to Florida - we lived in Florida for two or three weeks on a horse farm - and that 's where we finished the song .
So Meghan 's idea was to go back and forth with the vocal as far as male/female kind of thing.It 's about more of a fantasy , it 's not how we met , per se .
It 's more of a thing about just everyday life , like maybe you 're wandering around and you see someone that you really want to get to know , just from a completely physical aspect .
And it 's just about how people are timid and shy , or maybe intimidated at first , because you do n't get to know people , you just get a notion of the way someone may or may not be by what you think about the way they look .
And you 've just got to have that courage to just take the first step and say something . ''
