Through the mid - '60s , Phil Spector was focused on singles , with his definition of an album being `` two hits and ten pieces of junk . ''
He took a different approach , however , when he put together a Christmas album in 1963 , where he put a great deal of effort into every track .
The only original song on the album was Darlene Love 's `` Christmas -LRB- Baby Please Come Home -RRB- , '' which he wrote with Jeff Barry and Ellie Greenwich .
Spector issued the song as a single when the album came out , but unfortunately this was the same day US president John F. Kennedy was shot and killed .
This seriously dampened the holiday mood and the single , as well as the album , were withdrawn .
Spector had previously used Darlene Love as the voice of The Crystals on the songs `` He 's A Rebel '' and `` He 's Sure The Boy I Love . ''
In a 2008 interview with Record Collector , Love talked about working with Spector on `` Christmas -LRB- Baby Please Come Home -RRB- '' : `` Phil worked everybody so hard on the album and the days kind of blurred into each other , thinking about it now .
But there was a real Christmas party atmosphere in the studio , even though it was the height of summer , and a lot of great musicians were involved .
They were n't that well-known at the time but so many of them went on to become famous in their own right , like Leon Russell .
Sonny Bono and Cher were involved in a lot of the stuff too , so was Glen Campbell .
We worked hard , though , some days we 'd be in the studio for eight or nine hours just doing one verse of one song . ''
-LRB- This interview is available at Rock 's Backpages -RRB- Darlene came to the attention of David Letterman when he saw her in the Broadway musical Leader of the Pack .
In 1986 , he had her perform it on her show , and almost every year would invite her back to sing it on his Christmas show .
This gave the song a big boost and kept Love in the public eye .
When she was featured in the 2013 documentary 20 Feet From Stardom , Love got to sit on the couch for an interview with Letterman for the first time .
Phil Spector is Jewish , but his wife at the time , Ronnie Spector , celebrated Christmas in a big way .
Ronnie claims that Phil would come to her house to learn about the holiday and get ideas for his Christmas songs .
Being an astute businessman , Phil Spector had Darlene Love re-record this song as `` Johnny Please Come Home , '' and released it shortly after Christmas .
The song had the same music and theme , but the lyrics were changed to remove the Christmas references .
This was used in the movies Gremlins -LRB- 1984 -RRB- , Goodfellas -LRB- 1990 -RRB- , Bad Santa -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , Christmas with the Kranks -LRB- 2004 -RRB- , and The Perks of Being a Wallflower -LRB- 2012 -RRB- .
Some of the artists to cover this song include Jon Bon Jovi , Death Cab for Cutie , Mariah Carey , KT Tunstall and Smash Mouth .
Cher , who sang backup on the original -LRB- she was one of Phil Spector 's favorite backup vocalists -RRB- , also did her own version .
The most popular cover , however , was recorded by U2 for the 1987 Special Olympics benefit album A Very Special Christmas .
Organized by Jimmy Iovine , he had Darlene Love do backup vocals on the track .
Love was the only backup vocalist - she recorded several tracks which were combined to make her sound like a full section .
