This is a Romeo & Juliet-style love story set in a troubled Northern Ireland .
A boy and a girl , one a Catholic and one a Protestant , betray their families and their upbringing to meet on the bomb sites and the no-man 's land between divided communities .
The setting is given away by the drum and pipe marching music , so reminiscent of the parades mentioned in the second chorus .
Like Shakespeare 's play , there is a tragic ending .
The `` Hearts go to their graves , '' but it is not clear whether this refers metaphorically to the end of the affair or a suicide pact .
A major influence on this song was the killing of Thomas Riley , who on August 9 , 1983 was fatally shot in the back by a policeman in Belfast .
Riley was a friend of the band and sold merchandise on their True tour .
After the tour , he returned to his native Belfast and got caught in the violence in the area .
When Riley , a Roman Catholic , was shot by the British soldier , it inflamed tensions and led to more riots in the area.Speaking on the BBC program The One Show , Spandau Ballet guitarist/songwriter Gary Kemp explained : `` I 'd been to Ireland a few times - it was quite shocking for privileged boys as we were .
When we went back in 1985 , his brother Jim Riley offered to take me to Falls Road to visit the grave of Thomas .
As I took that walk , I could see the barricades set up dividing the two main streets , the Protestant side and the Catholic side .
It did n't occur to me to write a song at that point , but it was a huge influence.I was living in Ireland about a year later , and ` Through The Barricades ' came to me in one evening .
About two in the morning , lyrics started appearing in my head and I picked up a guitar - this has never happened to me before .
I felt the song was leading me itself.It 's a song not specifically about what happened to Riley , it 's a love song , which is what I know best .
It 's a Romeo & Juliet song - two people trying to have a relationship that was n't really allowed . ''
Several of the band went on the record to say they considered this better than their more successful song , `` True . ''
-LRB- thanks , Stu - Fife , Scotland , for above 2 -RRB- The band had an acrimonious split in 1990 , but reunited in 2009 .
According to Gary Kemp , this was a very important song during their reunion .
`` It 's very moving to play that with Tony , given the enormous struggle that we went through personally together , '' said Kemp .
`` That song is a way of all 5 of us embracing each other metaphorically on stage . ''
