Sometimes misunderstood as a putdown , this is a rare Stones song that treats women as equals .
Jagger sings that he `` Do n't need no beast of burden . ''
This is n't about a specific woman .
Most women in Stones ' songs are composites of many .
A beast of burden is an animal that labors for the benefit of man , like an ox or a pack mule .
This song could be allegorical - it was written by Keith as a kind of homage to Mick for having to carry the band while Keith was strung out on heroin : `` All your sickness I can suck it up , throw it all at me , I can shrug it off . ''
-LRB- thanks , Eric - London , England -RRB- The Chinese ministry of culture ordered The Stones not to play this when they performed there in 2003 .
It was going to be the first time The Stones played in China , but they canceled because of a respiratory disease that was spreading through the country .
Ron Wood : `` That 's another one that just came very naturally in the studio .
And I slipped into my part and Keith had his going .
It may have appeared as though it was planned .
We can pick it up today and it will just naturally slip into the groove again with the guitars weaving in a special way .
It 's quite amazing really .
Ever since Keith and I first started to trade licks , it was a very natural thing that , for some unknown reason , if he 's playing up high , I 'm down low and the other way around .
We cross over very naturally .
We call it an ancient form of weaving -- which we still are impressed by it to this day .
Unexplainable , wonderful things happen with the guitar weaving .
There 's no plan . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- A live version from their 1981 US tour was used as the B-side of their `` Going To A Go-Go '' single .
Keith Richards wrote this , but a lot of the lyrics were improvised in the studio .
While the band played , Jagger came in with different lines to fit the music .
As a result , some of the lyrics are less than meaningful and a little repetitious .
Bette Midler covered this in 1983 .
Jagger appeared in the video .
Whilst Richards spent much of the '70s insulating himself with drugs , former London School of Economics student Jagger was running the band .
However , by the time of Some Girls , Richards wanted to share the workload .
Mojo magazine January 2012 asked Richards how much this song was about his relationship with Jagger ?
He replied ; `` Mick wrote a lot of it but I laid the general idea on him .
At the time Mick was getting used to running the band .
Charlie was just the drummer , I was just the other guitar player .
I was trying to say , ` OK I 'm back , so let 's share a bit more of the power , share the weight , brother . ''
