This song finds Apple realizing that despite her best efforts in trying to be friends with a former lover , she just was n't getting along with him .
The singer told Interview Magazine : '' ` Werewolf ' was really an important song for me because it was admitting , ` Yeah , all the anger that I had toward you was justified , and you are an a -- hole , but I was a great dance partner , and I brought a lot of that out of you . ' ''
At around 2:10 into the track , a bunch of screaming children accompany Apple as she sings `` Nothing wrong when , a song ends , in a minor key . ''
She told Pitchfork how she struggled to come up with the right noise for the tune 's frightening finish .
`` I wrote that song while staying at my mother 's apartment up in Harlem , '' she explained .
`` Whenever there 's a TV , I put on -LSB- Turner Classic Movies -RSB- - I always have it on , while I sleep , whatever .
I was recording myself doing the song for the first time , and a battle broke out in the movie that was playing .
People were shooting and screaming .
I liked it , but I could n't use it from the movie , so I spent literally the next year trying to recreate that sound .
I went to San Francisco for Halloween and I was hanging out in trollies recording people screaming .
I would walk past a bunch of drunk people and be like : ` Hey , scream ! '
But it would always sound wrong and stupid.But on the first morning we were planning to record , I had just gotten out of the shower and I heard all these kids screaming , '' Apple continued .
`` There 's an elementary school across from my house in L.A. I was like , ` Oh s -- t , that 's it . '
I threw on whatever was right there - which I did n't realize at the time was a pair of pants that I was going to throw away because the ass was split - and I ran out , half-clothed , carrying my recording thing .
I was standing there looking like a crazy person , watching these kids .
They were jumping with balloons between their legs , trying to make them pop .
In the actual song , we had to take out all the balloon pops because they sounded like gunshots .
But it was so perfect . ''
Apple opted for a mythological lupine metaphor to avoid using coarser expletives that would more crudely but accurately describe her anger towards her ex .
