In The Barclay James Harvest Story , the official biography of the band , this song is described as a deconstruction of this Bee Gees ' `` New York Mining Disaster 1941 -LRB- Have You Seen My Wife , Mr. Jones -RRB- . ''
The BJH song is a lot more down tempo than the original , although the melody is more or less the same .
It is basically a commentary on the 1974 miners ' strike which brought down the Conservative Government .
See Joe Gormley in the Song Images .
The lyrics are full of obscure allusions : `` A sailor oh so gay '' refers to Prime Minister Ted Heath , who was passionate about sailing and widely -LRB- and erroneously -RRB- believed to be homosexual , which at that time was still something of a taboo , especially for a politician .
Although confirmed bachelor Edward -LRB- later Sir Edward -RRB- Heath was far from our most distinguished Prime Minister , he spent nearly four years in Downing Street , and continued to serve as an MP until 2001 , clocking up over fifty years in the House .
He died in 2005 .
In the BJH song , the refrain `` Have you seen my wife , Mr. Jones ? ''
is replaced by `` Have you seen my life , Mr. Groan ? ''
`` Mr. Groan '' is clearly a reference to then miners ' leader Joe Gormley .
Gormley , a laconic figure of the old Labour school , was elected leader of the National Union of Miners in 1971 .
The miners went on strike in January the following year but it was called off before the end of February .
In February 1974 they went on strike again , and Heath called a General Election for the following month as a vote of confidence .
The Conservatives lost , and he was replaced as Prime Minister by Labour 's Harold Wilson , whom he had previously succeeded .
Gormley continued as leader of the NUM until March 1982 , when he was replaced by the left wing firebrand Arthur Scargill .
He was elevated to the peerage , and died in 1993 .
This song also includes references to David Bowie 's `` The Man Who Sold The World '' and `` Space Oddity . ''
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for above 2 -RRB-
