Malcolm McCormick , who is better known by his stage name Mac Miller , is an American rapper from Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
A self-taught musician , he plays piano , guitar and the drums as well as rapping .
Miller started his music career as one half of a rap duo , The Ill Spoken , with fellow Pittsburgh spitter , Beedie .
Upon turning 18 , he signed with Rostrum Records and in August 2010 released his mixtape debut titled K.I.D.S. with the label .
The first single released from his second Rostrum mixtape , `` Donald Trump , '' reached the Hot 100 , an impressive feat for a song that did n't receive major radio airplay .
The song was produced by ID Labs , a Pittsburgh production team that consists of E. Dan and Big Jerm , whose previous credits include Wiz Khalifa 's `` The Race . ''
The song 's music video was shot on location at Miller 's favorite Pittsburgh deli , where he was filmed behind the counter .
It also features the rapper 's white afro-wigged alter ego , Cam Rellum whilst Miller 's Most Dope crew can also be spotted early on - Jimmy is drinking a slushee mix straight from the store 's fountain and TreeJay is catching a nap.We then see Miller finding a secret door that leads to models dancing with furry animals under a black light .
`` The concept of that , it was like a garden of girls and black light , '' he explained to MTV News .
`` All these girls looked so sweet and trippy .
My idea was to put all the girls in onesie bathing suits and make them look like synchronized swimmers and put caps on 'em , but we just made 'em look trippy .
`` The video concludes with Miller and crew having fun in Blue Slide Park , the playground that he named his debut album after .
This is the first single from Miller 's debut album , Blue Slide Park .
The song title refers to a Pittsburgh deli known for its homemade sandwiches , which is located at Pittsburgh 's largest municipal park .
It was released on August 18 , 2011 .
The album is named after Pittsburgh 's Frick Park , which is also known as Blue Slide Park .
Miller explained the title 's significance to MTV News : `` Being 2 going down slides and then being 6 playing Little League and hanging out there , then being older coming back there to drink and smoke and party , running from the cops .
And now going back there just to chill out and drink a beer . ''
