In the New Musical Express November 2 , 1974 , the song 's writer Freddie Mercury elucidates on this song : `` It 's about a high class call girl .
I 'm trying to say that classy people can be whores as well .
That 's what the song is about , though I 'd prefer people to put their interpretation upon it - to read into it what they like . ''
The Marie Antoinette quote has gone down in History as justification for the French Revolution .
It demonstrates how out of touch with the common folk the ruling class had become .
According to legend , when informed that there was no bread for the people to eat , she replied , oblivious , `` then let them eat cake ! ''
It is said , that enraged by this incredibly ignorant response , the people revolted .
In the song , it is used to demonstrate at what level this high priced prostitute sells her wares .
-LRB- thanks , Kraeg Minett - London , Canada -RRB- This song was covered by Sum 41 for the 2005 Queen tribute album Killer Queen .
-LRB- thanks , Rachel - South Point , OH -RRB- In the video game Guitar Hero 3 , one of the unlockable guitars called the `` Card Sharp Special '' can have a finish called `` Killer Queen . ''
In the description it says : '' Something about dynamite and laser beams ?
what 's that all about ?
and who am I to deny it ? ''
, which is a reference to the song lyrics .
-LRB- thanks , Paul - Los Angeles , CA -RRB- Californian Pop Princess Katy Perry named one of her fragrances after this tune .
She told Women 's Wear Daily the song 's lyrics really spoke to her when she was a teenager .
`` Killer Queen has been in my vocabulary since I was 15 , '' Perry said .
`` Freddie Mercury painted the lyrics of this woman who I wanted to be .
She seemed very powerful , and she captivated a room when she walked in . ''
Regarding the line , '' ` Let them eat cake ' she says , just like Marie Antoinette '' : According to legend , Marie Antoinette -LRB- the Queen of France -RRB- said `` Let them eat cake '' after hearing how the peasants had no bread to eat .
It 's more likely that the phrase was uttered by a French philosopher , not Antoinette .
-LRB- thanks , Brentley - gibbon , NE -RRB- This was the band 's first major breakthrough on the worldwide singles charts , even though it was taken from their third album .
-LRB- thanks , Tom - Trowbridge , England -RRB- In Ben Elton 's musical We Will Rock You , Killer Queen is an evil matriarch who controls the music industry .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England -RRB- Brian May in Q magazine March 2008 : `` This is a perfect pop record and one of Freddie 's greatest songs .
It 's beautifully constructed and it 's also got one of the solos I 'm most proud of . ''
