James Arthur was born in Saltburn-by-the-Sea near Middlesbrough , to Shirley Ashworth and Neil Arthur .
His parents split up when he was young and Arthur spent time as a child living in Bahrain before moving back to the UK with his mother as a teenager .
Once back in the North East of England , he went off the rails following a family break-up and spent spells in care and living on the streets .
Arthur has always loved singing and had been gigging around his local area for several years before a friend persuaded him to try out for X Factor .
Despite various setbacks such as suffering an anxiety attack backstage after the second live show , and having to be saved by the public vote when he was placed in the bottom two in week 7 , Arthur triumphed as champion of the ninth series on December 9 , 2012 .
Profits from the single were donated to Together for Short Lives , a charity for children with life-threatening and life-limiting conditions .
This was the fastest-selling single of 2012 in the UK with first-week sales of 490,000 .
Arthur 's version of the Shontelle song sold more than three times as many copies in its first seven days as Cheryl Cole 's `` Call My Name , '' which previously had the best first week of the year at 152,000 .
The song was an international hit , topping the singles charts in the Czech Republic , Greece , Ireland , Luxembourg , Slovakia and Spain .
The track also reached # 2 in Australia and New Zealand .
Its global success made it one of the best-performing winner 's singles internationally from an UK X Factor winner .
Arthur performed this cover of Shontelle 's hit song in the X Factor final and it was made available for download straight after its transmission .
The physical release was backed with Arthur 's X Factor renditions of LMFAO 's `` Sexy And I Know It , '' Eurythmics ' `` Sweet Dreams -LRB- Are Made Of This -RRB- '' and Adele 's `` Hometown Glory . ''
The song was downloaded 187,000 times in the first two days after its release , the best sales start ever for an X Factor winner .
Alexandra Burke 's `` Hallelujah '' was the previous most popular X Factor winner initially selling 149,000 copies .
This was the 127th single to surpass a million sales in the history of the UK 's Official Singles Chart .
Prior to this song , three other debut singles by X Factor winners had topped a million , Shayne Ward 's `` That 's My Goal , '' Alexandra Burke 's `` Hallelujah '' and Matt Cardle 's `` When We Collide . ''
