Harris wrote this song about an Australian stockman on his deathbed in 1957 .
He was inspired by the Harry Belafonte calypso craze , which was big at the time , and he wrote this as an Australian calypso .
Harris recalled in The Wacky Top 40 by Bruce Nash and Allan Zullo : `` I was trying to come up with new songs that had a simple chorus that everybody in the club could join in with .
I liked -LRB- Harry Belafonte 's -RRB- ` Hold 'Em Joe . '
There was a line that went , ` Do n't tie me donkey down there , let him bray , let him bray . '
And I thought , ` That 's good .
I can change that and make it an Australian calypso .
Instead of a donkey , I 'll have a kangaroo in there somewhere . '
`` Eventually , I came up with ` Tie me kangaroo down , sport . '
And the tune seemed to come from midair .
It was just handed to me on a plate . ''
Harris proceeded to write as many verses as he could think of regarding Australian themes .
It was his brother Bruce that came up with the idea of tying all the verses together into a story about a dying rancher .
The American version was produced by George Martin , who went on to fame producing The Beatles .
When Harris wrote this song , many Aborigines were treated as no better than slaves , and the original words that Harris wrote for the song included a verse referring to Aboriginal workers in those terms .
Some territories picked up on it and the song was banned in Singapore .
Harris has since admitted that those lines were racist and apologized for using such language .
The Australian singer-songwriter later dropped the verse when re-recording the hit for the American market .
He explained in an interview with Radio Scotland in 2006 : `` I was 27 or something when I wrote that .
But since 1960 , I have never sung that verse . ''
Harris performed this song with The Beatles for BBC radio in 1963 .
His adapted lyrics included ; `` Do n't ill-treat me pet dingo , Ringo / Do n't ill-treat me pet dingo / He ca n't understand your lingo , Ringo , So do n't ill-treat me pet dingo , Ringo . ''
In America , Harris released spin-off songs called `` Tie Me Hunting Dog Down , Jed '' and `` Tie Me Surfing Board Down Sport . ''
When it was released in 1960 , the song went to # 1 in Australia for four weeks and reached # 3 in the UK .
That same year , it was released in America on 20th Century Fox , but went nowhere -LRB- see proof in Song Images -RRB- .
Three years later it was released in the US after an aborigine-inspired song called `` Sun Arise '' made it to # 61 there .
Harris recalled : `` A disc jockey in Denver played ` Tie Me Kangaroo Down , Sport ' for a laugh .
He told his audience , ' I do n't understand the lyrics and I do n't know what a didgeridoo is . '
He got such a reaction to the song that he played it almost every hour .
So Epic Records put it out as a single and it became a hit . ''
The whoop-whoop-whoop sound in the background came from a wobbleboard , which is basically a sheet of masonite .
Originally Harris used the wobble board for his painting before he discovered its musical properties by chance .
This happened when he shook one to cool it down after it had been propped up by a paraffin heater and he discovered when he did this it produced an interesting sound .
In May , 1963 , Pat Boone released a cover of this song as a single , which competed with the re-release of Harris ' version in America .
Boone 's cover did n't dent the charts , as Harris stayed in the Top-40 for nine weeks that summer.Rolf Harris recalled to The NME : `` Pat Boone was in Australia when it was a hit in 1960 .
He wanted to do an American version but his record company said , ` It does n't make any sense . '
Three years later I had a # 3 in America .
Pat Boone went back and said , ` See . ' ''
When a sprightly eighty year old Rolf Harris appeared on the BBC Breakfast programme on Friday , June 18 , 2010 to promote his latest book and art exhibition , he was asked by one of the presenters how he got into music .
Harris moved to London from his native Australia in 1952 to study art ; his ambition was to become a portrait painter , but as he told Charlie Stayt and Susanna Reid : `` Well I was broke , I ran out of money ... '' which led to him entertaining , playing piano accordion in the Down Under club , which was patronised by Australians and New Zealanders .
He wrote the song for them .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB-
