This dreamy slice of five part-harmony is the first single from The Beach Boys first album of new material for two decades .
The band wrote and recorded the set ahead of their 50th anniversary tour , which started on April 24 , 2012 .
`` It 's like an accolade to the radio and what it 's meant to so many people , '' vocalist and songwriter Mike Love said in a promotional trailer .
`` It 's our new single from our new album ... if you like harmony it 's going to knock your socks off , '' added guitarist Al Jardine .
The song made it 's national radio debut on April 25 , 2012 on ESPN 's Mike and Mike in the Morning .
Brian Wilson wrote the song with Jim Peterik -LRB- formerly of Survivor -RRB- , Joe Thomas and Larry Millas in the summer of 1998 .
Surprisingly , That 's Why God Made The Radio achieved a higher chart placing than Pet Sounds .
Despite now being recognized as one of the most influential records in the history of popular music , the Beach Boys ' 1966 LP only peaked at # 10 at the time .
The song 's music video was directed by Aaron Brown and Ben Chappell of Focus Creeps , who are best known for the clips they 've filmed for British band Arctic Monkeys .
Speaking to NME about the visual 's concept , Brown said : `` It 's a lot of kids of various eras that the music has influenced , like '50s greasers , '60s outlaw biker guys and '70s surfer hippies .
Then they all go to this party and open the garage door and The Beach Boys are setting up . ''
The song was the first new Beach Boys recording with Brian Wilson on vocals since 1989 's `` In My Car . ''
The That 's Why God Made The Radio album debuted at # 3 on the Billboard 200 , the Beach Boys ' highest-ever album chart start in their home country .
While The Beach Boys have achieved higher chart placings with several albums , they had never before had an album debut in Billboard 's Top 10 .
The Beach Boys first reached the top 10 of the Billboard 200 with Surfin ' USA in the week of June 15 , 1963 .
That 's Why God Made The Radio 's entry meant that by expanding their span of Billboard 200 top 10s to 49 years and one week , they passed The Beatles ' record for the longest stretch among groups .
The Fab Four 's top 10 span covers 47 years , seven months and three weeks .
