This Speed Metal classic features vocals from a very drunk and disoriented Gibby Haynes of the Butthole Surfers .
When he was in Chicago for the first Lollapalooza tour , Al Jourgensen of Ministry brought him in to add vocals to this song .
Jourgensen told us : `` Gibby came down completely drunk off his ass .
He could n't even sit on a stool , let alone sing .
I mean , he was wasted .
He fell off the stool about 10 times during the recording of that vocal .
He made no sense and it was just gibberish .
So I spent two weeks editing tape of what he did , thinking it still was better than what I was thinking of doing with the song . ''
Car racing was big part of Al Jourgensen 's childhood , as his stepfather was a mechanic for the famous race car driver Dan Gurney .
Said Jourgensen : `` In 1965 I went to the Indy 500 , and my dad worked in the pit crew .
And what struck me most about the whole thing was not about the car racing , but about the volume and the noise - it freaked me out .
So I was like 6 , 7 years old , and the volume of Indy Car drove me into music .
Because the sound was so loud I could n't believe it .
And Ministry is the loudest band in the world .
I mean , I 've even had Motorhead tell me that , so it 's pretty much confirmed . ''
Ministry was signed to Warner Bros. .
Records , who made the mistake of giving the band $ 750,000 to make the album .
`` We , of course shot it all up our arms and put it up our noses and did n't have a single song to show for it , '' recounts Jourgensen.With the budget blown , the band had just this song to show for it - and it did n't even have vocals .
`` I did n't know what to do with this song .
Because it was a crazy 5-4-7-4 beat , '' said the Ministry frontman .
After bringing in Gibby to put the vocals down , they had the completed song , but nothing else for the album .
The record label had to make a decision .
Said Jourgensen : `` We sent Warner Bros. that and they had to figure out if they wanted to double down and give us another $ 750,000 bucks or whether they wanted to cancel the whole project .
Like , get rid of these guys , they 're useless .
Because we were .
We were useless.So they doubled down and they released ` Jesus Built My Hotrod , ' which to this day is still the hottest selling single on Warner Bros. in history .
But they had to do that to make their money back , because they 'd already put about 1.5 mil into us .
And we got one song .
By the end of it , we finally got our act together and we created an album .
But the first song was a complete accident .
This shows the power of the record companies , because they hated it .
They were like , What is this ?
This is stupid .
I thought we hired Ministry , instead we get this bing a bang a bong bing bing bing bing , you know , this hillbilly stuff .
And they hated it .
But it started selling , surprisingly .
Because that was released about 6 months before the album was completed .
It started selling as a single because they tried to make their money back on anything ; they did n't think they were going to get anything else out of us Psalm 69 so they released ` Jesus Built My Hotrod ' with Gibby , blithering idiot , talking s -- t , just screaming into a mike and falling off his chair.And they sold it .
They sold like 14 million copies of it or something like that .
And so then they doubled down and we were able to finish the record .
We knew we could n't shoot the rest of the budget up our arms , so we went in there , rolled up our sleeves , not only to shoot up , but also to work , and finished the album .
But that was quite an auspicious beginning to a multi platinum album . ''
The single contained two versions of this song : the 8:15 `` Redline/Whiteline '' mix , and the 3:45 `` Short , Pusillanimous , So-They-Can-Fit-More-Commercials-On-The-Radio Edit . ''
The long version contains dialogue sampled from the movies Blue Velvet and Wise Blood .
