Ozzy Osbourne takes on Jesus ' Second Coming on this song , which finds The Prince Of Darkness singing : `` You 're just a self-made messiah , selling brimstone and fire / So c'mon Jesus , do n't keep us waiting just for you / How will I know you Mr. Jesus Christ ?
Have you already been here once or twice ?
/ The son of man or obsolete facade .
How will I know that you 're the Son of God ? ''
Despite his `` Prince Of Darkness '' image , Osbourne was actually bought up as an Anglican and sometimes went to church as a child .
In an interview with Spinner UK , he was asked whether this song is questioning his faith .
The ex Black Sabbath frontman replied : `` No , when my house is on fire I get religious ; when it 's cool I do n't want to know and that 's the truth . ''
The Second Coming of Jesus Christ is a fundamental part of the Christian faith .
In a 2010 poll of 1,546 adults aged 21-26 , four in ten young Americans said they believe the Son of God will return by 2050 .
The New Testament as a whole teaches that Jesus will return to earth , evil will be punished , justice will be done and all that trust in him will enter into eternal life .
At the last supper , Jesus promised to return and take his disciples to be with him for ever in heaven.Throughout history the timing of Jesus ' return has been speculated .
In France during the year 1033 , for instance , there was a mass panic that the 1000th anniversary of the death of Christ would result in the end of the world .
Fears were heightened when terrific thunderstorms destroyed the crops during spring resulting in famine .
Many people made public spectacles of repentance and a number more went on pilgrimages to the Holy Land .
The date of Christ 's return is not known , however Jesus did say that in the run up to his second coming , there will be increasing disbelief , false Christs and prophets , wars and rumours of war , famines and earthquakes .
This is what Ozzy is alluding to when he sings , `` How can you shut off their cries ?
Ignore a new genocide ?
So come on , Jesus , We 're all here waiting just for you . ''
In an interview with Jane Stevenson of the QMI Agency on the Jam !
Music site , Osbourne remarked that he has never shied from controversy in his rock 'n' roll career : `` That 's what I 've always done , and why should I change it now ? ''
he said .
`` What that -LRB- song asks -RRB- is , ` How bad does it have to get before -LRB- Jesus returns -RRB- ?
If he 's not coming now , what the f -- have we got to do ?
A nuclear war every hour ?
I mean , how many people have died for their religion and how many still are ?
I 'm going to Israel this year .
I 'm quite interested to go because -LRB- there are -RRB- Christians and Muslims and Jewish people all in the same area .
And if they ca n't get on , what chance has anybody got ?
Too many religions but only one God . ''
Guitarist Gus G contributes a classical-sounding acoustic guitar intro to this track .
He admitted to Musicradar.com : `` Truth is , I suck at acoustic guitar .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- Really , I 'm not good at all .
I do like to play chords with a lot of open strings , so that 's kind of what I do when it comes to playing the acoustic .
Really , though , I just copied what you hear on classic rock songs .
If you listen to classic rock , there 's lots of acoustic guitar playing going on underneath the electrics . ''
