Carmine Appice was the drummer in Stewart 's band .
He wrote the music for this song with Duane Hitchings , a songwriter who also worked on Stewart 's hit `` D'ya Think I 'm Sexy . ''
Appice told us : `` Rod was always trying to be on the cutting edge at that time , so we did drum machine stuff .
Duane had just gotten a sequencer , so we started screwing around and came up with the chords and melodies .
We presented it to Rod .
This one was easy because we used the whole concept that we came up with .
We just transferred it from the 8-track that Duane had going right onto the 24-track .
We used the drum machine and everything .
Once we gave Rod the music , he wrote the lyrics .
`` Hitchings adds : `` I put together the whole song at my house with Carmine 's help and used an Oberheim OBX-A , Oberheim DMA sequencer and the Oberheim DMX drum box .
It was really one of the first one-man-band setups .
We took the whole setup in the studio and recorded straight to tape .
I started the idea because Devo was real big and one of my favorite groups , thus the fast pulsing synth groove .
And of course Rod did a great job !! Got a bit of help with a nice instrumental line from Kevin Savigar also ! ''
-LRB- Thanks to Carmine and Duane for telling us about this song . -RRB-
Many of Stewart 's songs tell stories .
This tells the story of Billy , a kid who leaves his hometown and gets his girlfriend pregnant .
This was the first video played on MTV that contained breakdancing .
It was released a few months after MTV went on the air , and benefited from lots of play on the channel .
Of about 200 videos in MTV 's rotation , Stewart had about 40 .
Says Appice : `` The videos were cutting edge .
He had top-of-the line people .
When I first joined him , the first video we did was for ` Hot Legs , ' and that was a great video .
It was played all over the world .
For every album we did with Rod , we did 2 or 3 videos .
There were a lot of stations that would play videos .
There were video outlets in Australia and England .
Top Of The Pops would play the videos all the time . ''
In English slang , a `` Young Turk '' was a rebellious kind of teenager who would go against the grain .
Appice : `` Rod would put the lyric melody to the music we came up with .
On that one , we used a drum machine , and I played hi-hat and cymbals overdubbed to the drum machine . ''
