This emotional tune is the title track and first single from 2010 American Idol runner up , Crystal Bowersox 's debut album .
Unlike most other American Idol debut records , the disc features several songs that Bowersox wrote during her pre-Idol days , including this one .
The song was the first debut single by an American Idol winner or runner-up that had to be edited for radio play because of the bad language .
Bowersox discussed the song 's meaning with Yahoo Music 's Lyndsey Parker : `` The subject matter is pretty heavy , but it 's honest , '' she said .
`` There are plenty of people out there dealing right now with what I dealt with as a kid .
Sadly , a lot of people can relate to it , and it 's going to strike a chord.It 's definitely autobiographical .
I never want to talk about my mother poorly because she did the best she could ... She was a single mom of three kids .
That is not easy .
We were poor and she would get frustrated and she did n't know how to deal with her emotions , and she 'd turn to drinking and things would get physical a lot in our house growing up .
There was constant chaos , cops on the lawn , physical fights and stuff .
A lot of my youth was very dark and ugly .
But I do n't see ` Farmer 's Daughter ' as a dark song , because for me it was healing .
All of the emotion in that song is no longer inside of me . ''
Bowersox 's record company wanted the Kara DioGuardi and Chad Kroeger co-penned `` Hold On , '' to be her first single , but the Idol runner-up was adamant this song was the best choice .
She told MTV News : `` It was n't necessarily a battle , win or lose , it was more of just convincing the label that putting ` Farmer 's Daughter ' out as the first single was the best choice , as far as representing me as an artist and a songwriter .
` Hold On ' is a great song -- it 's the safe choice -- and I did n't want to just do the cookie-cutter , safe choice .
Nothing to discredit the song , I gave it my best shot , I hope I did Kara and Chad proud , but as far as a first single goes , ` Farmer 's Daughter ' was the right choice , and I had to slowly get the label to agree with that , and they did . ''
The personal and autobiographical song tells of Bowersox 's difficult upbringing and tackles alcoholism and child abuse .
She sings : `` Halfway to crazy , not far from sane / F -- in ' sick and tired of all your games / All I wanted was for you to take care of me , '' The Idol runner-up told Access Hollywood in a video interview that it , `` is an angry song to my mom , but she knows that I love her . ''
Crystal added that her mother was n't thrilled that her daughter wanted the song to be her first single but , `` eventually , she 'll be okay with it . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Meiert Avis who has also helmed clips for Bob Dylan , Bruce Springsteen , U2 , and Audioslave .
Its concept is a `` healing cycle '' that begins with a little girl that represents Bowersox , whose mom pushes her away and travels through the entire cycle of anger/healing/forgiveness .
`` At the end , it comes to a resolution of , I guess , my acceptance of my mother and being a mother , '' Crystal told Access Hollywood .
`` It ends where I am today . ''
The album 's cover photograph was shot in Monticello , New York and shows Bowersox reclining on a tatty couch frame situated on the porch of a shack .
A dog sits next to her on a cushion .
`` Her name was Angel , and she belonged to the owner of the property where we had the shoot , '' she told Billboard magazine : `` She just jumped up on the couch and we were hanging out .
This sounds really cheesy and weird , but the pitbull is a sweet animal that just wants love until it 's provoked - that 's kind of how I 've lived my life , too . ''
