Stevie Wonder was clearly a genius , and proved it in 1963 with his # 1 hit `` Fingertips -LRB- Part 2 -RRB- , '' which was taken from an impromptu live recording .
Motown Records put plenty of promotion behind him -LRB- getting him appearances in the movies Muscle Beach Party and Bikini Beach -RRB- , but they could n't get his talent to come across in a studio recording.With the top Motown producers passing on Stevie , it was looking bleak until he started working with Sylvia Moy and Henry Cosby .
Moy had Stevie play her different song ideas he had come up with , but was n't impressed with any of them .
Pressing to make sure he did n't have anything else , Wonder reluctantly played her something he had been working on : a ditty where he sang , `` Everything is alright , uptight . ''
Moy likes what she heard and helped him develop the song along with Cosby .
The song went to # 3 in the US and from that point forward , Wonder was a regular at the top of the charts .
Wonder received his first songwriting credit for his work on this track .
Just 15 years old it marked his first UK hit and his first US Top-10 since his days as `` Little Stevie Wonder . ''
In his teenage years , Wonder honed his craft under the tutelage of the Motown staff , and in 1969 he negotiated a deal that made him one of the first artists to write , produce , arrange , and perform his own songs .
In this song , Wonder is in bliss because he has found the girl of his dreams .
He 's dirt poor , but it does n't matter because he 's in love .
Loggins & Messina expressed a similar sentiment in their 1972 track `` Danny 's Song . ''
In 1972 , Wonder was the opening act for The Rolling Stones on their North American tour .
Stevie and The Stones did n't interact much offstage , but near the end of the tour , Wonder would join the band on stage to perform a medley of this song and '' -LRB- I Ca n't Get No -RRB- Satisfaction , '' which became a highlight of the performance .
`` We did it once and it was so exciting that we decided to just keep it in , '' said Wonder .
