This was an antithesis to Pink Floyd 's `` Another Brick In The Wall -LRB- part II -RRB- , '' in which Madness rejoiced in their school days .
Frontman Suggs recalled in Uncut magazine March 2008 : '' ` Baggy Trousers ' was sort of an answer to Pink Floyd , even at that age I thought the line ` teacher leave the kids , alone ' was a bit strange , sinister - though I think Floyd are a great band .
It sounded self-indulgent to be going on how terrible schooldays had been ; there was an inverted snobbery about it too .
` You went to a posh public school ?
You wan na try going to my school . ' ''
This was the third of 16 Madness pop promos directed by Dave Robinson , whose day job was their record label boss .
It was filmed at Islip Street School , Kentish Town .
Saxophonist Lee Thompson wore in the video 64-inch baggy trousers previously worn by the portly actor Peter Ustinov .
When he played his saxophone solo he is shown flying through the air by means of a wire from a crane .
Guitarist Chris Foreman recalled in the same Uncut interview : `` One night Lee and I had bunked into see Genesis at Drury Lane - at a point in the set there was an explosion and Peter Gabriel went flying through the air .
That 's why Lee went flying in the ` Baggy Trousers ' video-he always vowed that when he got the chance he 'd do the same thing . ''
This song represented the first time that Suggs took songwriting seriously .
He recalled to Q magazine November 2012 : `` I was at Lee -LRB- Thompson -RRB- 's flat on the Caledonian Road in a sleeping bag on the floor , thinking about Ian Dury .
I thought if I just wrote down all my memories of school , the wasted f -- ing time and the fun , then tried to put them into some kind of rhythmic order ... the mixture of happiness , sadness , pathos .
That was ` Baggy Trousers ` and I thought , I 'm on to something here . ''
`` Baggy Trousers '' featured in the 2001 film Mean Machine , which starred Vinny Jones .
Suggs recalled to The Daily Mirror September 18 , 2009 : `` I remember thinking that Pink Floyd 's Another Brick in the Wall showed a very different school experience to ours .
In my school , I generally felt sorry for the teachers who were given a hard time because we were all up to no good .
So I tried to redress the balance a little bit with this song .
The title refers to the high-waisted Oxford bags we used to wear with Kevin Keegan perms - the worst fashion known to humankind .
It became so popular with primary school kids that it resulted in us doing a matinée tour . ''
