A modest hit for Ritchie Valens in 1959 , `` La Bamba '' is a traditional Mexican Folk song popular at weddings and other celebrations .
When Los Lobos recorded it for the 1987 biopic about Valens , their version became a massive hit and popularized the song with a new generation.Based in Los Angeles , Los Lobos formed in 1973 and released their first major-label album in 1984 , which earned critical acclaim and a following for the band on the West Coast .
When we spoke with their founding member Louie Perez in 2012 , he explained : `` The reason why we got involved in the first place is because we were asked by the Valens family if we would do this .
It came from his mom and his sisters who had to give their blessing to the filmmaker and director to make this movie .
They said , ` We want Los Lobos to do it . '
By then we had picked up a little speed .
We had a couple of critically acclaimed records , and we had a couple songs that were played on the radio , but no big hit .
So for us it was doing it for them and for the legacy of this young Chicano kid who really pioneered .
I mean , how bold was it back then in 1959 to take a Mexican song and make it into a rock tune , rock arrangement , and sing it in Spanish ?
That was pretty damn brave . ''
Los Lobos write their own songs and cross many musical genres , so when `` La Bamba '' became their best-known work , it put them at risk for typecasting .
`` We did n't want to slick our hair back and wear puffy sleeves , '' said their guitarist Cesar Rosas .
Making sure they followed their own path , they used the financial windfall to finance an album of traditional Mexican songs called La Pistola y el Corazón , which was released in 1988 .
Louie Perez explained : `` How we redirected that frustration was to do something that was completely different .
Different than would be expected of a band who just had a huge hit .
We did n't want to chase that hit , come up with ` La Bamba # 2 . '
So we put out a record of traditional Mexican music with a couple of original songs on it that we wrote , something we 'd always wanted to do .
I remember after that record was released , journalists from all over were writing how Los Lobos committed commercial suicide , and I think to some degree it was true ; we threw this wrench in this machine and brought it back to what we were all about . ''
This was the first # 1 US hit with lyrics that were entirely in Spanish .
Weird Al Yankovic recorded a parody of this tune called `` Lasagna , '' which is all about Italian food and written in a style of an Italian folk song .
