Moore wrote this song with Jamie Paulin and producer Jeremy Stover .
He recalled to Great American Country : `` We were in Jeremy 's house and we were discussing my keyboard player , who grew up in Eastern Kentucky .
My guitar player also grew up in Eastern Kentucky .
We 've become really good buddies .
I went up to where he 's from , Pike County , Kentucky .
I thought I grew up in the backwoods !
I found out that they grew up in a holler called Greasy Creek .
I came back and said , ` Y' all would not even believe how backwoods this is . '
One of us just started playing the melody , the guitar stuff on it , and Jeremy just started rambling , ` Rifle on my gun rack , hanging in my back glass . '
That was one of those songs that we wrote in 30 or 40 minutes .
We wrote it and were like , ` It could be cool , ' and when we demoed it , we loved it .
It 's a fun song to play live . ''
Moore told AOL 's The Boot about the song 's lyrical content : `` I grew up in a little bitty town in Arkansas , back in the sticks .
I 've got a guitar player from Pike County , Kentucky - it 's actually called Greasy Creek where he 's from !
I went up there , and he and I played a couple of gigs together up there .
I came back home and called my producer .
I said , ` Dude , I grew up out in the woods , but you would n't believe how backwoods this place is !
` It was a song we wrote in about 20 minutes .
One of us just started rambling , and the other one started playing the groove of it .
Some songs you write and know it 's a really good song , then some of them you get into the studio and it comes to life then .
This was one of those songs .
I liked it when I wrote it , but when we got done doing it in the studio , we both went , ` Man , this has got to go on the album ! ' ''
A copyright infringement lawsuit was filed by Tennessee songwriter Bobby Carmichael and Louisiana fiddler Britton Curry against Moore and his record company , Big Machine Label Group , in August 2012 .
The suit claimed that `` Backwoods '' sounds strikingly similar to a song they wrote in 2003 .
The pair alleged that when they tried selling their tune in Nashville in 2005 , Jamie Paulin `` heard and/or secured the song . ''
This was released as the third single from Moore 's self-titled debut album .
Moore told The Boot about the song 's music promo : `` It was our first night shoot .
It was a fun shoot .
I was glad to have my band in the video .
Probably my favorite thing about it is my guitar .
They made me a camouflage guitar for the video .
It 's the simple things in life that make me happy ! ''
