This moody , atmospheric rocker has lyrics about being but a small crack in the ` Castle of Glass , ' illustrating both belonging and futility .
The song was born out of Linkin Park 's less-than-traditional methods of recording .
`` Our writing process is a weird , amorphous thing , '' said Mike Shinoda to MTV News .
`` For some bands , just to put it in perspective , they jam , and then they write a song and then they record a song and then they mix it and finish it ... we do n't do that , '' -LRB- laughs -RRB- .
`` We do everything at once , every step of the way , '' he continued .
`` From the moment we 're putting things down on the laptop , I 'm already kind of mixing it a little bit -LSB- and -RSB- sometimes those things end up being songs , like ` Castle Of Glass , ' -LSB- where -RSB- my vocal performance in the first part of that song , pretty much almost everything you hear in the beginning of the song was the very first demo .
Like , that went from nothing there , to those things , and then the song got built . ''
Like most of the songs on Living Things , the song 's lyrical content can be interpreted in several ways .
Chester Bennington explained to MTV News : `` When Mike was talking about the lyrics , at one point he had said , ` You know , it 's kind of like finding yourself as this broken part of this big machine , and feeling like you 're not part of that , or trying to find your place in the bigger scheme of things . '
And that can mean a solider coming home from war , and trying to fit back into society , or a person getting out of prison , or whatever.And here I am , envisioning this big , beautiful glass castle on a hill , and , like , unicorns .
I 'm thinking like ` Yeah , if you zoom in , I 'm this little broken part of this castle that no one knows about , and I may seem like flawed and not important , but when you back up and look at the big picture , you 're part of this really beautiful thing that keeps you together , '' he continued .
`` And it was a really interesting twist ; I think a lot of our lyrics can be taken from multiple perspectives , depending on what you want the song to be about ... they can be felt on so many different levels . ''
