... Like Clockwork is Queens of the Stone Age 's sixth album and their first in six years .
Spawned during a turbulent time , which included the departure of longtime drummer Joey Castillo and a near death experience for vocalist Josh Homme , their difficulties were the stimulus for record 's name .
`` The inability for anything to go like clockwork was the inspiration for the album title , '' Homme laughed to MTV News .
`` It 's because an inside joke ; we 'd have these great victories and then something would go south for a bit , and we 'd go ` It 's like clockwork ! '
I think a sick sense of humor is what 's always been our preservation mechanism , so this time , we 're using that sick sense of humor for a title . ''
UK artist Boneface created the artwork for the ... Like Clockwork album .
He told NME where the concept came from : `` It 's intended as a beautiful moment , romantic even , but there 's a sense of threat there too .
I tried to convey that if you want to make something really special , you 'll usually have to get through some bad s -- t to get there . ''
James Lavelle 's string arrangement for this song broke new ground for QOTSA .
Homme told Mojo magazine : `` We 've never been a big user of strings , ` cos I like horns more .
There 's tubas on the track , too .
I 'm a tuba man .
James really wanted to give it that refined edge , and I wanted someone to blow into a giant metal tuba .
We compromised and had both .
For me , everyone uses strings , but James found a really good way to use them .
We just decided , lets bury the band underneath a fleshy mass of horns and strings . ''
The song finds Josh Homme concluding , `` One thing that is clear , it 's all downhill from here . ''
NME commented to him that it was a pretty negative way to end the album .
The Queens vocalist replied : `` Funny you bring that up .
Because it was n't really for the Queens record .
It was just so powerful that you could n't look away , and I was talking to the band about that track and we were like ` Does anyone know what ` it 's all downhill from here ' means ? '
And we were like , ` Is it bad or good ? '
And we could n't decide , so I Googled it and the internet did n't know either .
So I actually thought it was a wonderful way to end the record , because the consensus among all of us was that it 's up to you .
So apparently you 're quite a negative person .
Because downhill is coasting , right ? '
But it 's a phrase that sits on the fence .
You need to decide which side you 're gon na jump on .
But you got ta jump . ''
Queens of the Stone Age became king of the charts when ... Like Clockwork became their first # 1 album on the Billboard 200 .
The record also did well internationally , topping the charts in Ireland and Australia .
