On this melancholy song Eminem raps about his struggles with drug addiction .
In August 2005 Eminem entered drug rehabilitation in order to treat a dependency on sleep medication .
He subsequently took a break during which he battled his addiction whilst industry insiders speculated that Shady had ended his rapping career .
Eminem is now sober and he told Vibe magazine that this song is the only one he kept from the recordings he made during that dark period in his life .
He explained : `` One of the only reasons that I put that track on there is that I feel like it 's the best song out of that batch that I did when I was n't sober .
At the time I felt like , ` This is it for me . '
I wrote the first verse and a half in rehab , and when I came out , I finished it .
It was the only song that marks that period without bringing me back to that place .
Every other track not only did n't fit with the album , but when I listened to it , it would bring up bad memories . ''
This samples Paul Rodgers and Queen 's version of Rock Therapy 's 1996 charity single `` Reaching Out . ''
Eminem told The Observer Music Monthly that he when he wrote this song he was `` sitting on the end of the bed in detox , not fully committed to it and not fully detoxed .
They give you medicine to make your detox not as rough . ''
He added : `` I wrote it during that period -- the first two days .
I was sitting there not knowing where I wanted to be in my career .
I did n't even know if I wanted a career any more , because this s -- t was too much .
It just was n't worth it . ''
Paul Rogers told Spinner he was not a great fan of the way Eminem sampled his song .
Said the frontman : `` It was interesting , the Eminem thing because it was n't quite what I had planned .
When we were touring , they tossed around a version of that song and how they planned to sample it .
And it was very different to the final result .
I was n't actually crazy about the final result , in all honesty .
I never use foul language onstage or on records .
It 's just not my thing .
I do like Eminem , and I think he has a very credible point and lots to say , but he does it in a different way than I would ever do . ''
This is the only track on Relapse that Eminem produced himself .
Eminem expanded to the Observer Music Monthly May 2009 , on why this is the only song that he retained from the dark period in his life when he was n't sober .
He explained : `` It 's the only one I could actually listen to and feel OK about .
It brings me back to a time when I was really depressed and down , but at the same time it reminds me of what that space is like and what never to go back to .
There is a lot of honesty in that song that I would n't want to just throw away .
I started writing the first verse and half of the second when I was in rehab going through detox .
I did n't have a beat in my head or anything like that ... I wrote the verse and just knew I wanted it to be a bounce-style , I guess .
I got that first bit out and finished it when I got out of rehab , when I relapsed right back into taking pills .
If you listen to that song and how it starts off , I 'm just so f -- king depressed . ''
This was the 5th song of that title to chart in the Hot 100 .
The four previous `` Beautiful '' songs were by Gordon Lightfoot -LRB- # 58 , 1972 -RRB- , Christina Aguilera -LRB- # 2 , 2003 -RRB- , Snoop Dogg featuring Pharrell & Uncle Charlie Wilson -LRB- # 6 , 2003 -RRB- and Akon featuring Colby O'Donis & Kardinal Offishall -LRB- # 19 , 2009 -RRB- .
