According to Mirriam-Webster Dictionary online , the word `` like '' can be a verb , a noun , an adjective , a preposition , an adverb , a conjunction , and a verbal auxiliary .
Even with all those choices , it is tough to define how Americans have taken the word and , like , Americanized it.So it stands to reason that a British band writing and singing in an American accent would tack that word into a song , grin mischievously whenever they sing it , and never let on the fact that `` you 're like a woman '' does NOT mean `` you resemble a woman . ''
`` Originally it was supposed to be funny because I was getting sick of writing songs in my head in an American accent , '' explains Steve Adams , `` knowing that I was gon na sing songs in an American accent .
And I thought it would be something an American would say ; an English person would say , ` You 're a woman , ' and an American would say , ` You 're , like , a woman . '
No one ever picks up on that .
If you put in stupid private jokes , people rarely pick up on them , and you end up forgetting them yourself . ''
Steve explains why they began life as the Broken Family Band singing with an American accent : `` Well , because we started as a Country group , and we were doing it for fun and stuff .
And it seems like it was the furthest thing I could do that was away from what I 'd done before .
I 'd been in really earnest indie bands , being quite shouty and not singing particularly well , and I wanted to sing better , and I always found that if I sang in the shower I always sang American songs , because almost all the bands were American .
So I 'd end up singing in an American accent .
And I think it 's something to hide behind , and it took me about five years to realize that I was actually hiding behind it .
And I think it really annoys a lot of people over here , and it 's probably done us quite a lot of damage in terms of getting anywhere , because there 's nothing cool about putting on an accent .
And I did n't make it easy for us , because I never pretended to be like an American wannabe or anything .
The interesting thing is that it 's never annoyed any Americans that I know of .
I do n't think they can tell .
A Texan friend of mine once said , ` You sound like a New Yorker pretending to be from Tennessee , ' which I thought was the kindest thing anyone could say.I think we probably would have been more successful had I not stuck to my guns .
Just before we went to record our first record , I asked someone if I could sing all the songs in an English accent , and they said , ` No , you sound more miserable when you sing in English , why do n't you do it in American ?
You might sound more cheerful . '
Once we 'd done one record , I thought we were stuck with it .
But I dropped it on the last record , mostly , and the new one we just finished doing -LRB- Please and Thank You -RRB- there 's no accent on it . ''
-LRB- Read the full interview with Steve Adams -RRB- `` This must happen to a lot of people , '' explains Adams , `` you start writing a song about one thing and then you kind of get sidetracked and you end up writing a song about another thing , and the two things get mixed up in the lyrics .
And one part of it , the beginning of it , is about my ex-girlfriend , and the policeman , which is all true .
And then I kind of made up stuff about going on .
`` In hindsight , he says , this song is also about the awkward part of a first date , when you realize `` she 's better at picking the wine . ''
