Hendrix claimed this was inspired by a dream where he was walking under the sea .
In the dream , he said a purple haze surrounded him , engulfed him and got him lost .
It was a traumatic experience , but in his dream his faith in Jesus saved him .
Part of the lyrics were formed from some of Jimi 's free verse ramblings that he jotted down from time to time .
On the original recording , you hear the line up of the Experience with Noel Redding on bass and Mitch Mitchell on drums .
-LRB- thanks , Willy - Winchester , MA , for above 3 -RRB- Hendrix claimed this had nothing to do with drugs , but it 's hard to believe they were n't an influence .
The lyrics seem to vividly portray an acid trip , and Hendrix was doing plenty of drugs at the time .
Hendrix wrote the lyrics on the day after Christmas in 1966 .
He wrote a lot more than what made it to the song .
The track was developed at a press function that he attended at East London 's Upper Cut Club , run by the former boxer Billy Walker .
Hendrix launched into the scorching riff in the club 's compact dressing room and every head turned .
`` I said , write the rest of that , '' said Chandler .
`` That 's the next single ! ''
It was premiered live on 8 January 1967 , in Sheffield in the north of England .
This contains one of the most misheard lyrics ever , with `` Scuse me while I kiss the sky '' interpreted as `` Scuse me while I kiss this guy . ''
Hendrix added to the confusion by sometimes singing it that way and pointing to one of his band members .
This song is apparently referenced in an episode of The Simpsons .
Homer is shopping -LRB- for useless garbage , of course -RRB- and finds a back massaging chair called the Spinemelter 2000 .
Homer sits in the chair and orders the store clerk to put it on full power .
As the chair begins to massage Homer , he tells his family , `` Excuse me while I kiss the sky ... '' -LRB- thanks , Collin - Midland , TX -RRB- The track was the penultimate song Hendrix played in concert , on September 6 , 1970 , days before his death .
At one point , Hendrix wrote the chorus as `` Purple Haze , Jesus Saves , '' but decided against it .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England , for above 2 -RRB- This song was written under the guidance of Hendrix ' manager , ex-Animals bassist Chas Chandler .
They had just released Hendrix ' first single , a cover of Tim Rose 's `` Hey Joe '' and were looking for a follow up .
Chandler was impressed when he first heard the riff , and inspired Jimi to finish writing the song .
The opening chord of two riffs then an interval of flattened fifth is the d5 or `` tritone , '' which has long been regarded as the `` Most imperfect of dissonances '' and was generally avoided in composition for that reason .
-LRB- thanks , Roberta Freund Schwartz , Assistant Professor of Musicology , University of Kansas -RRB- .
Jimi and producer Chas Chandler used some unusual studio tricks to get the unique sound .
To create the background track that sounds distant , they put a pair of headphones around a microphone and recorded it that way to get an echo effect .
For one of the guitar tracks , Hendrix used a device called an Octavia , which could raise or lower the guitar by a full octave .
A month before Hendrix died , he opened a recording studio in Greenwich Village called Electric Lady .
One of the studios is known as `` Purple Haze '' and contains a purple mixing board .
The studios have remained active with The Clash , Weezer , Patti Smith and Alicia Keys all recording there at some point .
When the recording was sent to Hendrix 's American label , a note said , `` deliberate distortion , do not correct . ''
James Ford , who is a member of the production duo Simian Mobile Disco tells in the NME column `` My first record '' : `` The first record I remember really connecting with was ` Purple Haze . '
I remember being blown away by its wild and unhinged energy .
It was also the first thing I ever tried to work out on a guitar .
Needless to say , I did n't get very far at that age . ''
-LRB- thanks , DeeTheWriter - Saint Petersburg , Russia Federation -RRB-
