Encouraged by the crossover success of `` Only Women Bleed , '' Cooper returned to the rock ballad format with the single `` I Never Cry . ''
This proved to be a shrewd decision on Cooper 's part , at least from a commercial standpoint .
The track performed very well on the charts , peaking at # 12 on the Billboard Hot 100 and rising to # 23 on the singles chart in Australia .
The song is about Cooper 's long bout with alcoholism ; he called the song `` an alcoholic confession . ''
In the foreword of Dick Wagner 's 2012 autobiography Not Only Women Bleed : Vignettes from the Heart of a Rock Musician , Cooper reflected on Wagner 's talents as a guitarist and songwriter : `` I first saw Dick Wagner while he was playing with the Frost and quickly filed him under ` Guitar players I 'd like to steal . '
But Dick is n't JUST a guitar player .
He 's a gifted writer , and I wrote most the Alice Cooper Hits with him . ''
The Alice Cooper Goes to Hell album is sort of a sequel to Welcome to My Nightmare , a concept album that tells the story of a child named Steven told through a series of nightmares .
Goes to Hell is a continuation of Steven 's saga .
The album was produced by Bob Ezrin , who was a longtime collaborator of Cooper and Wagner .
Outside of this song , the three co-wrote all the tracks on the album .
Cooper co-wrote this track with guitarist/songwriter Dick Wagner .
The two were a highly productive songwriting team ; they co-wrote more than 50 songs together , including many of Cooper 's best-selling singles during the shock rocker 's solo career .
In addition to `` I Never Cry , '' some of the other notable tracks the two penned together include `` You And Me , '' `` Only Women Bleed '' and `` Welcome To My Nightmare . ''
Cooper and Wagner wrote the song in Maui ; while rock history is rife with destination songwriting excursions gone horribly wrong , this one was not just productive , but enjoyable .
`` We were there for a month and we were writing , '' Wagner told us .
`` I wrote the music for the song while Alice was off doing something .
He came back and he liked that feel - the bluesy ballad situation - and he came up with the lyrics .
And , man , we had it .
It was a huge hit .
We were sitting on the veranda outside the house we were living in on Maui , right on the ocean .
Sitting out there at night with a keyboard just trying to come up with stuff , and it happened .
It was a full moon and it was a beautiful night .
It 's Hawaii - you could n't get any better .
I think we played golf that day .
We were there for a month and we really enjoyed it .
That song just came out naturally . ''
This song was a hit , but it alienated some of Cooper 's hardcore fans who felt that he was softening his sound too much in a calculated bid for more crossover success .
They feared that he was losing his rebellious edge , but Cooper made sure that his stage show remained heavy on theatrical Rock .
