This Scooter Carusoe and Phil Vassar penned song is the title cut of American Country Music Artist David Nail 's second studio album .
The track celebrates the power of music to create memories .
Nail told Roughstock : `` I used to make mix tapes and CDs and title them by the month or the name of the city I was going to visit .
I still do it .
Before a show , I make a playlist of songs I want to listen to and title it with the city we 're playing .
And this girl who used to drive me to school before I was 16 always had mixed tapes too .
So when I heard this song , it reminded me of that , just driving and listening to Bob Seger , Merle Haggard , Elton John , Glen Campbell , Garth Brooks , and the Wallflowers -- all on the same record .
I eventually moved to Nashville and had all these aspirations : a million different times I pictured myself moving to Nashville or singing on the Grand Ole Opry .
I feel like that 's what this song says .
These are the sounds of a million dreams . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Chris Hicky David and shot at the Alabama Theater in Birmingham , Alabama .
Nail decided on the location after playing a Bama Rising Concert as a fundraiser to help tornado victims in the state.It is bookended by clips of Nail 's family back home in Missouri , starting with old footage of the singer at the age of six , as his father introduces him on stage and ending with Nail 's beloved grandfather telling him how proud he is .
`` It 's songs like this that remind you of adolescence , being 15 or 16 years old and thinking , ` How do you do this ?
I really like singing , but coming from a small town like where I grew up , how do you start that journey ? ' ''
explained Nail .
`` If you did n't know anything about me , I wanted to visually tell that story in four and a half minutes , starting with me as a six year old , up to about six months ago , my grandfather getting his # 1 plaque for ` Let It Rain . '
My grandfather is a huge Las Vegas fan ; he and my grandmother drive out there three or four times a year .
So the thought that his grandson plays Vegas and the thought that his grandson 's name could potentially be on one of those marquees , just blew his mind . ''
Several lines in the song are straight out of Vasser 's life , including the references to `` Mainstreet '' and `` Mama Tried . ''
`` We were talking about ` Main Street , ' the Bob Seger song , that 's one of my favorite songs , and ` Mama Tried . ' ''
Nail told The Boot .
`` Merle Haggard was my very first concert I saw ever .
I saw Merle Haggard and Van Halen in the same week , so that kind of sums it up for me music-wise .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- I always wanted to be Merle Haggard and David Lee Roth at the same time !
I can listen to a song and I can still smell honeysuckle , or I can see these moments , being with a girl , all that stuff .
These things take you back , and you forget about that . ''
Nail explained why he chose this song to represent the album : `` I 've always felt that an album 's title was the most important thing besides the music .
It automatically gives someone an idea of what to expect , '' he said .
`` If you had to tell the story of me to this point , that song really sums it up . ''
The song is a tribute to the classic cuts that Phil Vasser grew up with .
`` One day Scooter and I were doodling around and playing some music and somewhere the line , `` sound of a million dreams '' just came out , '' he recalled to The Boot .
`` We were talking about how these songs and artists we listen to on the radio had influenced us in our lives growing up .
For me , they totally were and still are , the soundtrack of my life .
` The Sound of a Million Dreams ' is really talking about that . ''
