This is the first single from Last Night on Earth , the third studio album from the English Indie Folk Pop outfit , Noah and the Whale .
The album 's title is a nod towards Charles Bukowski 's poetry collection The Last Night of the Earth .
This song finds Fink singing of barmaids and struggling writers finding strength in their faith in the future .
A theme that runs through Last Night On Earth is the endless possibilities that lie behind a life-changing decision .
The singer told the NME : `` On the album there 's a lot of people changing their lives or people about to make a change .
The last few years have been transformative for me , I 've made a lot of changes in my life .
Nothing particularly drastic , but a lot of things on the album are about that moment , making the first step out . ''
Production wise , Last Night on Earth is a much more contemporary sounding record than the band 's previous two albums .
Frontman Charlie Fink explained in an interview with Contactmusic.com how this song helped guide its sound : `` This was a turning point in the album .
When we started playing the songs for this album , they sounded like '70s rock songs .
I decided that I did n't want to make a '70s rock album so we came in and recorded that song .
The production of how it sounds now is kind of how the demo sounded .
It 's narrative bound , like the other tracks off the album .
In terms of its sound , it sits very much in the middle of the record . ''
Last Night On Earth found Fink writing an entire album from a third person narrative , something he found `` very liberating . ''
`` It 's impossible to write without being personal , but you can do it without so much writing about your own life , '' Fink told Spinner .
`` You can take these characters and spin them in any direction you want .
`` One example is this tale of an aged nightclub dancer and a lonely writer .
`` Some songs you write in five minutes , some songs you write in five months -- that was just a song that happened really naturally , '' Fink explained .
`` Two months into writing the new album , all the songs were sounding like '70s rock songs , and I wanted to try something different so I went in there and demoed that song . ''
