This song is about a teacher who lusts after one of his students .
Sting was a teacher before joining The Police .
After a lot of speculation , Sting denied that this came from any personal experience on the DVD for his 2001 All This Time album .
-LRB- thanks , Tiffany - Castro Valley , CA -RRB- The Police recorded this over a period of months .
The song started as a Hammond organ-based Soul track then evolved through various complex arrangements , until it was eventually reduced to it 's simplest elements .
This won the 1981 Grammy Award for Best Rock Vocal Performance by a Group .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England , for above 3 -RRB- In 1985 , Sting worked with Dire Straits on `` Money For Nothing , '' which has a chorus that sounds very similar to this -LRB- compare the lines `` Do n't stand so close to me '' with `` I want my MTV '' -RRB- .
Sting did not want a songwriting credit , but his record company thought he should get one so they could receive royalties .
The race horse Zenyatta is named after the album Zenyatta Mondatta .
The horse is owned by Jerry Moss , who signed The Police to his label A&M Records .
The line `` Just like the old man in the book by Nabokov '' refers to the novel Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov , which is about an older man who pursues underage girls .
Sting based this song on the book .
Sting mispronounces the author 's name - the `` bo '' should be stressed .
Also , in the novel Lolita , Humbert is not quite an old man .
-LRB- thanks , Martin - London , United Kingdom -RRB- This sold 900,000 copies and was the best selling single of 1980 in the UK .
The Police reunited in 1986 to record updated versions of some of their old songs .
The reunion brought out old hostilities , and this was the only song they completed .
The new version was released as a single titled `` Do n't Stand So Close To Me ' 86 , '' and included on their greatest hits album Every Breath You Take - The Singles .
This was featured on Friends in the episode `` The One Where Underdog Gets Away . ''
Joey was on a poster for Venereal Disease treatment , and the song was played when they showed all the posters all over New York City .
-LRB- thanks , matt - Milton , PA -RRB-
