This menacing , industrial-sounding track was the first song Garbage put together after reconvening following an indefinite hiatus .
`` This song happened on either the first or second day that we got together , '' guitarist Steve Marker recalled to MusicRadar.com .
`` We were just trying to see if this whole thing would work .
We had a rule that nobody could bring in any demos or old ideas ; we were just going to set up in a studio and jam .
Battle In Me resulted from that .
The jam was probably 20 minutes on the hard drive .
Each of us took it home and messed with it to make it the song that 's on the album . ''
In 2012 , vocalist Shirley Manson told Stylist : `` Even as I was spewing the words for the first time , I remember thinking to myself , ` This is how we should sound ' .
There 's a line in the song , `` Let 's take a torch to the past and the future . ''
That 's my mantra ; you do n't have to be married to who you were .
This sense of liberation seems missing in the current musical climate -- it seems so overly sexualised now .
People like Rihanna and Lady Gaga are sexual , but they 're doing it in an interesting way .
What scares me is that there 's no alternative to that pop world . ''
She added : `` In the last decade we 've stuffed our feelings and everything that is n't perfect down inside us .
Nobody has spoken about their fears , their frailty or their negative thoughts .
I love pop music , but I also want a balance to that .
I want to hear what women have to say ; there are no gobby , alternative women with guitars on the radio at the moment . ''
Marker was inspired by the guitarist documentary It Might Get Loud .
`` The night before , I had watched the movie It Might Get Loud , and I was feeling pretty fired up - there 's a little Jimmy Page in the song , '' the Garbage axeman told MusicRadar .
The song received its first radio broadcast on Steve Lamacq 's BBC Radio 6 Music show on March 27 , 2012 .
It was released as the lead single to promote Not Your Kind Of People in the United Kingdom on May 7 , 2012 .
