Naleigh is the name of Josh Kelley 's daughter , who he adopted with his wife , the actress Katherine Heigl -LRB- yes , the girl from Knocked Up did not actually get knocked up -RRB- in 2009 .
Kelley wrote the song with the Nashville songwriter Clint Lagerberg , and it reflects Josh 's feelings after bringing Naleigh home .
Said Kelley , `` Clint had just had a little baby boy .
So when we sat down and I said , ' I want to write a song about Naleigh , ' we just started talking about our kids .
And we were just so excited .
We were both like brand new people .
And the lyrics just started pouring out , everything that we were talking about became the lyrics .
And I think that was just one of those really fortunate happenstances that both of us were experiencing something at the same time and we could write about it , even from a different perspective.My wife was working on a movie , Life As We Know It , she was playing this mom who had all of the sudden got a kid out of the blue .
-LRB- laughing -RRB- Right when we had a kid , she gets a kid in her movie .
It was in the air . ''
Kelley released his first album in 2003 , but Georgia Clay was his first Country effort .
The genre allows him to record his most personal songs , like this one , which deals with starting a family and moving to Utah .
Said Kelley , `` My life has completely changed .
My wife is a very strong independent woman and she allows me my own independence .
And from the first time my baby girl brushed her hand against my face , my life was changed .
This album reflects those changes .
I think ` Naleigh ' Moon ' is the best song I 've ever written in my whole life .
The way the chords and the melody intertwine , it tugs on your heartstrings .
When I 'm singing it , man I mean it .
I 'm not just a guy in the studio doing take after take ; I mean every word of it each time I sing ` Naleigh Moon . ' ''
-LRB- Check out the full Josh Kelley interview . -RRB-
When we spoke with Kelley in 2011 , he glowed with pride when the subject of his daughter came up .
Said Josh : `` She is the cutest , coolest little kid on the block .
And she 's a total daddy 's girl .
I mean , I 'm obsessed with her .
I love her .
I take her every morning - I 'm the morning dad , so I get her in the morning and I take her to my studio and lay a bunch of little shakers and little toy pianos and stuff on the ground and I get in the my studio and she plays and sits in my lap and hits the piano every now and then .
`` Explaining why they adopted from South Korea , he added : `` Katie 's sister was adopted from South Korea .
And when we decided that we wanted to adopt first , we thought that would be sort of the logical place to start .
Let 's keep it in Korea .
And we started doing the process , it took a while , we were open to special needs of almost any kind .
And her special need - which is funny that this is even a special need - is that she had two holes in her heart .
She had surgery at three months and then at five months .
And luckily for me and Katie , my dad is a heart doctor .
It 's great .
So he checked up on her when she came in and he said she 's 100 % .
He was like , ` They did a great job on the surgery and she 's completely recovered . '
That 's why we got her early .
We got her at like 9 months .
She was actually born when we started the process .
-LRB- laughing -RRB- '' The song 's music video was shot in Los Angeles and directed by Katherine Heigl .
It includes home footage of the couple with Naleigh .
