In April , 2010 , Worley traveled overseas for the 8th time to perform for US troops in Iraq .
Supporting the troops is something that sits near and dear to his heart , having grown up with family members who experienced WWII , the Vietnam War , and the War in Iraq firsthand .
In our interview with Darryl Worley , he told us : `` I just realized , man , this was a huge sacrifice , and it affected so many people in so many different ways .
`` Darryl is an outspoken advocate for war veterans and wrote this song as `` almost like a cry out to say , ` Hey , be there for me .
Take the time , do n't expect miracles .
I 've just been through a hell of an ordeal .
I need time to re-acclimate .
Support me , be there for me . ' ''
He feels the message was clear .
`` It was a great statement .
I think people got it .
To me , it was our way of saying , ` Guess what , folks ?
We 've been through hell .
And it 's a tough gig , but we 're not complaining about that .
We 're just asking you to understand that . '
And we were even hoping that maybe some people would hear that and say , ` We need to do a better job of re-acclimating these soldiers and these marines and these troops when we bring them back home , instead of just throwing ` em out there in society and saying , Well , we hope you do okay . '
And that 's my take on it .
I just really do n't believe that the basic citizen out there walking around understands , or has any grasp , of what these men and women go through , what they 're asked to do .
And then 99 times out of 100 , when they come home , they 're just thrown right back into the mainstream of things .
And that 's very difficult , in my estimation .
And I think if you do n't have a supportive family group around you , somebody to really act as a buffer and absorb some of that shock ... and there 's a lot of kids that come home and do n't have anybody , and just kind of get thrown right back into the thick of it .
We did n't even think that that song would be a single .
And then when it became a single , we all sat around and said , ` Maybe somebody 'll hear it , and maybe somebody 'll go , Hey , we 're not doing the right thing by our troops .
They deserve better than this .
We should have a program by which we get involved and help them re-acclimate and just get their feet under ` em , and get their heads on straight before we fling ` em right back out into the middle of the craziness . ''
Many people have mentioned to Darryl that they feel this song appears to be at odds with his # 1 hit `` Have You Forgotten ? ''
He seems honestly baffled by that .
`` There are even people who felt like ` Have You Forgotten ? '
was written encouraging our invasion into Iraq .
And when I wrote that song there was no war in Iraq .
It was just the war that followed the events of 9/11 , in Afghanistan .
And I felt then like I do now , that you ca n't take a punch in the mouth like that and then just sit back and go , ` Well , let 's be nice to the world .
Maybe they wo n't do that again . '
I mean , I firmly believed that we needed to get our butts over to Afghanistan and get after the people that attacked us on our own turf .
And I do n't have a problem with expressing that to anyone that would question my motives .
I do n't feel like I 've compromised my feelings in either of those songs , and I stand by the message in both .
As far as being a war hawk , someone who 's just all gung-ho about going fighting , attacking people , that 's not who I am at all .
And I understand the casualties of war probably better than most , because I grew up in a family that has been affected on both sides by that . ''
In his song `` Awful , Beautiful Life , '' Darryl mentions his cousin Mike in Iraq .
When we asked if this song is about Cousin Mike specifically , he responds , `` It has to do with everybody that 's ever served , and especially those who 've been deployed .
It 's just a sentiment and a feeling that I got from interacting with a lot of troops over the years .
And not just from recently , but from the Vietnam era and WWII .
I 've heard all those stories and talk and relate to those people . ''
Worley recorded the Here And Now album under the then-newly-formed record label 903 Records , which was run by his friend and fellow Country singer Neal McCoy .
Worldy was the second artist on the label , with McCoy 's debut being the first.The album was released , and this song began easing quickly up the charts .
`` It was selling the crap out of records , '' says Worley .
`` Everywhere they were playing that song on the radio , the record sales were just through the roof .
Everybody was calling me and going , ` Wow , we sold out again today , ' and they were re-ordering , and we were all excited .
`` Then , after 2-3 weeks of the song climbing , McCoy made the announcement on May 4 , 2007 , that 903 Records was no more .
His statement , short and to the point : `` The truth is that after two great years of success due to the hard work of a lot of wonderful people , we flat ran out of money , end of story .
`` Huge disappointment , to be sure , but Darryl says it 's just something you have to deal with and move on .
One of the most frustrating things about it is that the label still has several thousand copies of the album , and refuses to sell them even to the artist himself .
`` Because it 's all contract stuff .
The record labels are holding onto what they think of as the only property that they 've got when everything goes south .
You ca n't just take the product and make copies of it and sell it .
I mean , I could , -LRB- laughing -RRB- but I 'd probably wind up getting in trouble , because they own the product .
I looked on iTunes the other day , and you ca n't even buy that album , because they 've got all the product locked down .
Which is stupid to me , because they 're not making any money by it sitting in a warehouse somewhere . ''
