The second single from O.A.R. 's seventh album , King , is about not worrying about making mistakes in a relationship , as everyone else does at some stage .
The band 's vocalist Marc Roberge admitted to AOL Music : `` I ca n't stand when people say , ' I do n't have any regrets .
It 's just not true . ''
He added : `` For me , I just was n't around as often as I should have been and I was n't able to balance correctly .
But the song , for me , is more lighthearted than the rest of the heavy stuff on the album , and is about two people meeting and throwing caution to the wind like you see in the movies . ''
The song was written during the final weeks of working on King and the band tried out several different choruses before settling on the one we hear on the album .
`` The team just kept digging until we found the one that opened up just perfectly .
It had to deliver the theme of the song sonically as well as lyrically , said Roberge to American Songwriter .
`` We do n't really have a set method for writing songs in this band .
Some are one guy with a guitar , some are the whole band at soundcheck , and some are a group of us in the writing rooms throwing ideas at each other , swapping choruses until we all collectively smile and nod . ''
Roberge explained the song 's meaning to American Songwriter magazine : '' ` Got ta Be Wrong Sometimes ' is about this idea that we can , in fact , live parts of this life without a care , '' he said .
`` But I think it only works in small doses , with short bursts of recklessness .
Most of our time we have responsibilities and routine to center us , though we can find more power sometimes in simply being able to let go .
The song is set in a moment when two people meet for the first time and decide to block the world out and simply enjoy the moment , even if for only a night . ''
The song took less than two days to lay down , which Roberge credits in part to the band 's drummer .
`` Unlike the rest of the album , we did n't record this track with full takes live as a band off the deck only because we had moved studios and broke down the full band set up , '' he told American Songwriter .
`` I remember listening back to our drummer Chris Culos ' tracks and thinking how thankful I was he nailed the live band drum performance we needed so badly , just playing along to a demo .
His high energy allowed us all to continue the team mentality we 'd had throughout tracking of the entire album , and get this thing sounding more like a live track than overdub overkill . ''
