Georgian native Craig Campbell had already been playing piano at his mother 's church since the age of 10 when he formed his band called Out of the Blue .
In 2002 Campbell moved to Nashville , Tennessee , where he landed a steady gig at The Stage , one of the biggest clubs in the city 's famed Lower Broadway and recorded demo sessions for other singers .
After meeting and befriending fellow Georgian Luke Bryan , Campbell was persuaded to start writing his own songs .
Record producer Keith Stegall caught one of Campbell 's performances at The Stage in 2008 and signed him to his Bigger Picture Music Group .
He eventually released his debut single , `` Family Man , '' in late 2010 , which slowly built up radio plays and sales before finally debuting at # 86 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart for the week of April 9 , 2011 .
The song was included on Campbell 's self-titled debut album , which was produced by Steggall and released on April 5 , 2011 .
Campbell told The Boot that when fans come up to him to tell him how much they love this song , he can definitely relate .
`` It 's about the struggles of being a parent and making ends meet , '' he said .
`` This country is full of those people and and -LSB- the song -RSB- helps them get through the day .
What we do even as musicians - just as people that work day in and day out to provide - that 's what we do it for . ''
After arriving in Nashville , Campbell met another singer , Mindy Ellis , fell in love , and the pair married .
This cut , which Campbell wrote with Jon Henderson and Joel Eric Shewmake , was inspired by the news that he was about to become a father .
He told The Boot : `` We wrote with that a friend of mine , Joel Shewmake .
He brought that to me and at the same time I found out I was gon na be a dad for the first time .
I said , ` That 's the story that I want to tell .
That 's who I am , or who I 'm gon na be and that 's what I want people to know . '
So we brought another guy in and wrote it and it has stood the test of time .
I wrote it a couple of years ago and it 's one of the older songs on the record , but its one of my favorites , and one of my best . ''
