Toby Keith opens his sixteenth studio album with its title track , in which a bartender lists various customers who have fallen on hard times .
The song evolved during a visit to his hunting and fishing ranch in southern Oklahoma in the fall of 2011 .
Keith explained : `` All the way there I had a verse and chorus going that I 'd had for a couple months .
I knew it was dark and a little out there , but I just could n't let it go .
I spent two days down there and the whole time , whenever I was n't talking to anybody , I was working that song in my head .
I just hammered on it ; completely obsessed .
When I finally nailed it , I played it for a couple guys and knew it was exactly what I thought it was . ''
The song was inspired by some neighbors of Keith 's who left a lasting impression .
`` Years ago , the first house I lived in , there was a couple a little bit older than me that were married and lived three houses down , '' he told Country Weekly .
`` They 'd work , and on Fridays and Saturdays they 'd have a big barbecue and play cards and drink beer .
Once in a while , I 'd go down there .
`` Eventually the couple eventually split up and he lost touch with them .
`` I thought of all the people who come and go in your life , who do n't give you a two-week notice when they 're gone .
And unless you 're really close to them , you just forget about them , '' Keith explained .
`` I started thinking of that , and how my dad would go to the café every morning in town .
He had his buddies he sat with ... and then just one day , they end up not showing up .
You might ask what happened to them , but it 's not really a big loss to you , because it was just trivial chatter : football games , I like your new truck , how 's it going ? ''
The song only reached # 29 on the Country chart and only had moderate airtime on the radio , but Keith told Country Weekly that he wo n't change his music just to get more airplay .
`` It was a song that I just told the -LSB- label -RSB- staff , ` We 're putting this out , so be ready to work it , '' he explained .
`` I gave you the ones that you wanted .
You 've had ` Made in America ' and ` Beers Ago . '
Now we 're going to do one that I want . '
And they had hell with it .
They really struggled getting it played everywhere . ''
Keith added that he acknowledged the song 's lack of appeal to the younger generation was the reason for its poor chart placing .
`` You can sit on the bus and sing it to two or three people who have never heard it , and they 'll just get goose bumps and go , ` Damn , that 's powerful , '' he said .
`` But you start playing it to a twenty-something audience , and it 's like , ` Naw , man , there ai n't no mud on that tire .
That ai n't about a Budweiser can .
That ai n't about a chicken dancing out by the river .
That ai n't about smoking a joint by the haystack .
That 's about somebody dying and s -- . ''
Regarding naming the record after this song , Keith said : `` When I handed the album over to the label and management , it was n't the first one that popped up , but it was n't three days before it reared its head as the pick of the litter .
Now when they 're out playing stuff for radio , this is the one they 're coming back on across the board .
One of my favorite things I 've ever written . ''
The song pays homage to those who have been influential in Keith 's own life .
`` Growing up in bars and having a grandmother who owned one when I was a kid and having played bars my whole life , I know how good neighborhood bars can be , '' he noted .
`` The bartender is also a baby-sitter , brother , father , mentor , guru , suicide hotline , everything ! ''
