This song is about a fashionable , but unfeeling woman .
The title is a play on words - it 's the name of a popular movie studio , but Jim Morrison 's lyrics refer to a girl - `` fox '' was a popular term for a pretty girl at the time .
The movie studio is used to represent the woman in the song , who is glamorous , but artificial.The studio , 20th Century Fox , is one of the Big Six studios .
Fox Film Corporation was founded in 1915 , while Twentieth Century Pictures was founded in 1933 .
They merged in 1935 and became `` The Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation . ''
In 2002 , original Doors Robby Krieger and Ray Manzarek joined former Police drummer Stewart Copeland and former Cult singer Ian Astbury to form a new group which they called `` 21st Century Doors , '' the name being a takeoff on this song .
They were going to start touring in 2002 , but had to postpone until 2003 when Copeland broke his arm while biking .
Krieger and Manzarek replaced him with drummer Ty Dennis , and Copeland filed a lawsuit claiming they broke an oral agreement to keep him as their drummer .
The band was also sued by original drummer John Densmore , and by Jim Morrison 's parents , who felt they were misappropriating the Doors name .
Krieger and Manzarek eventually changed the name to `` Riders On The Storm . ''
Doors ' drummer John Densmore reminisces in his book Riders on the Storm : My Life with Jim Morrison and the Doors that in the early days of the band , summer in 1967 , he ached to be part of the Monterey Pop Festival , but they were n't invited .
While later told that they were `` overlooked , '' Densmore supposed that The Doors were just too edgy and dangerous to mix it up with all those peace-n-love flower children .
Producer Paul Rothchild had the band walk on wooden planks during the chorus to get the pounding effect .
In Greil Marcus ' book The Doors : A Lifetime of Listening to Five Mean Years , the author compares this song to a Lichtenstein painting - pop art , with an irony and a sardonic grin .
He ruminates upon it as a ballad about how guys have it tough , having to conquer the world to win a gal 's eye , where all a gal has to do is look good .
