John Lennon recorded this as a demo in 1977 .
The other Beatles recorded around his tracks to complete song in 1994 .
The next year , it was released as a single .
Yoko Ono agreed to release Lennon 's demo to the other Beatles the day after he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
Yoko got a bad rap by a lot of Beatles fans , but she has been very protective of Lennon 's legacy .
This is one of the few projects she has authorized on his behalf .
Some royalties were donated to a Romanian AIDS charity set up by Elton John and the Beatles ' wives .
McCartney told Observer Music Monthly that they put some backward recordings at the end of the single as a joke , `` To give all those Beatles nuts something to do . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Jeff Lynne of The Electric Light Orchestra produced this .
Ringo Starr and George Harrison both played on E.L.O. 's 2001 album Zoom .
Lynne had quite a task on this song , as Lennon 's original vocal was mixed with the piano track .
Before their breakup , The Beatles won just four Grammy Awards , but they picked up three more in 1997 when `` Free As A Bird '' won for Best Pop Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal and Best Music Video , Short Form , and Anthology won Best Music Video , Long Form .
The phrase `` Turned out nice again '' at the end of the song is a reference to George Formby , a musical hall entertainer who played the ukulele and is represented in the closing scenes of the video .
`` Turned out nice again '' was Formby 's catchphrase .
The connection here is that George Harrison played the ukulele and was a member of the George Formby Appreciation Society .
He even attended their gatherings .
Harrison was said to have had a ukulele in every room of his home and gave one to McCartney early on in their career .
-LRB- thanks , PJ - Glasgow , Scotland -RRB- While locked up in Wormwood Scrubs prison for breaching a probation order , the controversial Rock vocalist Pete Doherty claimed he listened to this song every day .
