In early 2011 Hold Steady frontman Craig Finn challenged himself to write a new song every day in his Brooklyn apartment for his first solo album .
`` I had written a bunch of songs that were outside of the norm for The Hold Steady , a little quieter and perhaps more narrative , '' he said .
`` I wanted to gain some experience and insight into the process of making a record by working with new people . ''
Finn enlisted producer Mike McCarthy -LRB- Spoon -RRB- and traveled to an Austin , Texas studio far away from his New York comfort zone .
He hooked up with some local musicians there , including members of Phosphorescent and White Denim and sang his vocals live , keeping takes to a minimum and completed recording in a few days .
The Hold Steady singer admitted to Spinner that one of the most difficult things about the project `` was just to come in and meet musicians that I did n't know well . ''
He explained : '' I literally met them on a Monday morning and we jumped into recording the songs .
That was something that was intimidating for me at first and in the end brought me a lot more confidence and happiness .
In some ways , that 's what I was after .
That was a really cool thing . ''
The resulting album , Clear Heart Full Eyes was released on January 24 , 2012 on Vagrant Records .
Regarding the album title , Finn explained : `` It 's a juxtaposed reference to Friday Night Lights a TV show that excited and moved me and also happened in Texas .
Further , ` Clear Heart ' signifies honesty and transparency , and ` Full Eyes ' suggests experience . ''
`` No Future '' was the original song title of The Sex Pistols ' single `` God Save The Queen '' and this track namechecks the Punk band 's lead singer -LRB- `` The best advice I 've ever gotten was from good ol' Johnny Rotten '' -RRB- as well as another '70s rock icon Freddie Mercury -LRB- `` Good ol' Freddie Mercury is the only guy that advises me '' -RRB- .
Finn 's Catholic upbringing also comes into play as we also hear him singing about the Crucifixion and the Devil .
