This is a track from Kaleidoscope Heart , the third studio album by singer-songwriter Sara Bareilles .
The Californian artist chose the title of the album from the lyric in the bridge of this song .
She explained on her website : `` It 's the song that helped get me through my writer 's block for this album .
It 's a very special song to me , and is how I chose the name for the record . ''
Bareilles blogged regarding the album title : `` I picked out the name of the record months before I even finished writing the songs .
I love the imagery of those words , and they 're really representative of how I envision my heart .
It 's a colorful but fragmented , ever-changing sum of all the bits and pieces that make it up .
A Kaleidoscope is the tool that helps make sense of the mess .
Or at least makes it nice to look at . ''
The week Kaleidoscope Heart topped the Billboard 200 .
Bareilles ' 2008 release , Little Voice re-entered the chart at # 200 .
Only on one previous occasion has an artist bookended the survey since its conversion to Nielsen SoundScan data in May 1991 .
On the chart dated Oct. 18 , 2008 , T.I. debuted at # with Paper Trail , while T.I. Vs T.I.P. re-entered at No. 200 .
Bareilles told Billboard magazine that this is the centerpiece song on the album .
`` I was worrying -LSB- to a friend -RSB- about how I was never going to be able to write another song , and I was starting a lot of songs but I could n't finish any of them , '' she said .
`` I was really worried about stepping into the unknown and I did n't know what to expect the second time around ... and that afternoon , I sat down and wrote ` Uncharted . ' ''
Belying this song title , Bareilles scored her first number-one album and her best sales week ever when Kaleidoscope Heart topped the Billboard 200 chart with 90,000 sold on its debut week .
The song 's music video was released on March 1 , 2011 .
Have a go at playing spot the celebrity when watching the clip - amongst the music artists who make cameo appearances are -LRB- in no particular order -RRB- - Ben Folds Josh Groban , Sugarland 's Jennifer Nettles , Adam Levine and the rest of Maroon 5 , OneRepublic 's Ryan Tedder , Pharrell Williams , Ingrid Michaelson , Tegan and Sara and Vanessa Carlton .
