This mid-tempo ballad is the title track of American Country music artist Jason Aldean 's fifth studio album .
He explained the meaning of the song to The Boot : `` A lot of times when I 'm standing backstage , and I 'm looking around , I see all this chaos going on backstage now , '' said Aldean .
`` It was n't that long ago that it was me and my boys - 12 of us on a bus , pulling a trailer .
Now you go back there and there 's eight or nine buses , there 's nine semis .
We start filing out of the venue , and that 's what it looks like , it looks like a train - a freight train - going down the interstate . ''
The first week sales of 409,000 for Night Train was the best first-week showing for a country album since Taylor Swift 's Speak Now debuted with approximately 1,047,000 units in October 2010 .
The song was written by Neil Thrasher and Michael Dulaney and was originally pitched by Aldean for a different singer .
`` Me and a couple of guys in my band were working producing another artist , Kristy Lee Cook , and so I was trying to find songs for her record , '' he explained to Radio.com .
`` I called up Neil Thrasher , who 's a good friend of mine , writes a lot of songs for me -LSB- `` Fly Over States , '' `` Tattoos On This Town '' -RSB- .
I told him I have an artist I 'm working with , wanted to know if he had any songs he could pitch me .
So he sent over a few songs , and one of them was ` Night Train . ' ''
Aldean played the song for Cook and it did n't fit her , but the more he listened to it the more he liked the track .
`` I start listening to it and I get really into the song and I 'm thinking , ` If she 's not going to cut it maybe I should cut it , ' '' he said .
`` That 's how we ended up with the song and then ultimately the title of a record . ''
Aldean told Billboard magazine how the album title reflects where he is in his life and career .
`` To me , Night Train was a perfect example of just how far things have come the last few years , '' he said , `` going from a bus pulling a trailer to now like a freight train with bus and tractor trailers .
The title , more than the song , sums up where we 're at right now . ''
The song was released as the fourth single from Night Train on July 16 , 2013 .
Aldean took the opportunity to debut the song at the 2013 CMT Music Awards , which he co-hosted with actress Kristen Bell on June 5 , 2013 .
