This soul ballad recalling her church upbringing was written by Bailey Rae during some writing sessions in 2007 .
She told Jam !
Music about the song : `` It 's -LRB- about -RRB- spiritual experiences that I 've had .
And I really wanted to have a song that was really heavy and sort of aggressive on the record .
And a good friend of mine -LRB- Jennifer Birch -RRB- who was the guitarist in our old band , she wrote the chords for the bridge that go into the chorus . ''
Rae explained to ILikeMusic why she included a choral backing on this track : `` I did n't want it to be gospel or soulful , I wanted this real English classical sound to it .
I wanted it to sound spiritual , and thought `` what about a liturgical choir ? ''
The sort you go and see in an old church .
So I looked up this choir from Leeds University , went on their website and heard what they were doing .
I just emailed them , I think it was just before Christmas , and told them who I was and what I was doing .
It was really good to have had this idea , to find the choir and to engage them myself .
I really wanted to record them in this abandoned church on Burley Road called St Margaret 's .
It 's just been taken over by an Arts Council project , but they have n't had any money to do it up yet .
On the outside it 's all bricked-up , and I 'd seen it as I was growing up and been a bit curious , but just thought it was an ugly old church .
But when you go inside it 's this Gothic church with huge marble pillars , all white stone , and the reason the front is brick is because the committee that was building it ran out of money , so just had to finish it in brick .
But anyway , it 's gorgeous inside !
There were pigeons and spiders ' webs , no toilets or electricity , but I really wanted to record in there .
I got the choir there and ran a cable from the church to a guy who lives next door that I know .
So , going from a choral line in your head , a four part harmony that I wrote out , to actually hearing it with that kind of reverb was amazing !
It sounded terrifying , which is exactly how I 'd wanted it to sound . ''
