This is the title track of the eleventh studio album by American Rock musician Patti Smith .
Recorded throughout 2011 at New York 's Electric Lady Studios , it was produced by Smith along with core band members Lenny Kaye -LRB- guitar -RRB- , Jay Dee Daugherty -LRB- drums -RRB- , and Tony Shanahan -LRB- bass and keyboards -RRB- .
Banga was released on June 1 , 2012 on Columbia Records .
Another song to be inspired by The Master And Margarita is The Rolling Stones ' `` Sympathy For The Devil . ''
Mick Jagger 's girlfriend at the time Marianne Faithfull had given him the book .
Asked at a playback for the record why she named the album after a dog , '' Smith replied rhetorically .
`` I dunno .
I like dogs .
I ca n't really have one in New York , so I compensated by naming my album after a dog . ''
Regarding the cut 's lyrical content , Smith told Spinner : `` The song does n't really have any specific meaning .
It 's just a happy battle cry .
A unification song , you know ?
` Banga . '
Love and loyalty between me and my band , between us and the people . ''
The song title is a reference to Pontius Pilate 's dog in Russian author Mikhail Bulgakov 's satirical novel The Master And Margarita , and is all about loyalty .
`` That dog was loyal for 2,000 years on the edge of heaven while Pilate was waiting for Jesus Christ to speak to him , '' Smith explained to UK newspaper The Sun .
`` The dog did n't run around heaven looking for bones .
He sat at his master 's feet .
I thought that is true loyalty and used it as a fun metaphor for all the loyalty I 've experienced . ''
The song features some guitar work by Smith 's friend , Johnny Depp .
The Punk Rock godmother hooked up with the actor in Puerto Rico while he was filming Run Diary and she asked him to help her create a demo for `` Banga . ''
His guitar line opens the final mix .
`` Johnny leads the charge for Banga .
At the top of the song , it 's all me and him !
, '' she told The Sun .
This has one or two more chords than an average Patti Smith tune .
The punk godmother told Spinner : `` When I write songs myself , they 're usually one or two chords .
`` Banga '' has maybe three .
I 'm very limited as a guitar player .
I can only play a handful of chords so all of my songs are very simple and direct . ''
