This Dave Mustaine penned song was written by the Megadeth frontman for inclusion in the 2010 music video game Guitar Hero : Warriors of Rock , which was released on September 28 , 2010 in North America .
The song itself was released as a single on iTunes four days previously .
Speaking to Rolling Stone , Mustaine said , `` I thought it was a great idea for us .
We 've had experience with games in the past , and our songs have been in sports games and Grand Theft Auto , but we never really got into the Guitar Hero thing .
When they talked to us about doing this , I never imagined it would be something this honorable .
`` Only once in my career have I had this happen before , '' Mustaine added , referring to 1991 's soundtrack for Bill and Ted 's Bogus Journey , to which Megadeth contributed `` Go to Hell . ''
`` We had written something and Interscope told me to make the lyrics even darker .
Activision heard the track , and said , ` We want more solos on it . '
And I said , OK , I can do that . ' ''
This was the first song Megadeth recorded with original bassist Dave Ellefson following his replacement of James LoMenzo in early 2010 .
He told MusicRadar.com : `` This is a track that was being worked on when I rejoined the band .
I came in on a Friday , I played my part on a Saturday , and on Monday we put out the press release that I was back in Megadeth .
So this song represents a real homecoming for me . ''
Although the song was not recorded as an album track , it was included as the opening number on the band 's 2011 album , TH1RT3EN .
Ellefson spoke to MusicRadar.com about his contribution to the song : `` Musically , I wanted to combine a New Wave Of British Heavy Metal and a thrash style in my bass playing .
There 's some great rhythmic work going on , particularly in the intro , and the riff , especially towards the end , gives me a chance to move up an octave and create tension underneath the guitars .
All by itself , it 's a very exciting song .
But when I think about what it represents , it 's deep on an emotional level . ''
