This features Justin Timberlake , who also co-wrote the track with Madonna , Danja Hills and Timbaland .
Madonna told Interview magazine about writing with Timberlake : `` I really enjoy writing with Justin .
We had psychoanalytic sessions whenever we wrote songs first .
We 'd sit down and we 'd start talking about situations .
And then we 'd start talking about issues or problems or relationships with people .
That was the only way , because you know , writing together with somebody is very intimate .
That was fun , because he 's open and he 's got talent .
He 's a songwriter .
I have n't worked with a lot of songwriters where I 'm instantly connected and start riffing and playing with the rhythm of the words .
He 's as interested in the rhythm of the words as the meaning of the words . ''
The song 's co-producer Timbaland provided backing vocals on this track and produced it along with Hills , Timberlake and Demo Castellon .
Timbaland had partially debuted it at a Philadelphia Christmas concert in December 2007 .
This was only the second time that Madonna dueted with another artist .
Ironically the only other chart duet which Madonna has put her name to was `` Me Against The Music '' by Timberlake 's former squeeze Britney Spears .
Madonna revealed to Q magazine that this is her son Rocco 's favorite song on the Hard Candy album .
Her daughter Lourdes ' favorite tracks are `` Candy Shop '' and `` Miles Away . ''
In the third week that this topped the UK single chart , Madonna 's Hard Candy album debuted at # 1 in the album chart .
This was the fourth time that the Material Girl had simultaneous chart-topping singles and albums in the UK .
No other solo female artist has achieved that feat more than once .
Previously she 'd done the double with the 1986 single `` Papa Do n't Preach '' and album True Blue , the 1989 `` Like A Prayer '' single and album and the 2005 single `` Hung Up '' and album Confessions on a Dancefloor .
This song 's radio version actually lasts 3 minutes and 9 seconds , though the album version is 4 minutes and 4 seconds .
Timberlake told industry magazine Hollywood Daily People about their collaboration : `` A couple of times I pushed her in a direction where it took a minute before we saw eye to eye .
Her approach was , ` Well , I just have n't done that ' and I was like , ` Yeah , that 's why you should do it ' . ''
The 4 minutes refers to the length of the song .
It 's a little dramatic , as they do n't really save the world , but the song provides a concise showcase for the talents of Madonna , Timberlake and Timbaland .
The song builds in urgency until the dramatic cold ending , as the song cuts off just about 4 minutes in .
The video for the track was directed by French duo Jonas & François -LRB- Justice 's `` D.A.N.C.E. '' -RRB- .
In the promo Madonna and Timberlake play superheroes tackling physical obstacles and Timbaland also makes an appearance .
This song was Madonna 's 37th US Top 10 hit , breaking Elvis Presley 's record of the most career Top 10 singles .
She 's unlikely catch Elvis when it comes to Top 40 hits , as he has 114 .
Madonna on this song : `` If you 're paying attention to what 's going on in the world - the Middle East , the -LRB- US -RRB- election , the environment , there 's so much chaos and turmoil everywhere .
Are you going to be part of the problem or part of the solution ?
But people also need to be cheered up .
We also need to have fun and be given a sense of hope . ''
This was Madonna 's 13th # 1 in the UK .
Her first British chart-topper , `` Into The Groove '' was in August 1985 , meaning a 22 year gap between her debut # 1 and this one .
No other female act in history can claim such a span of longevity in the UK .
This song plays during the closing credits in the 2008 movie Get Smart .
-LRB- thanks , Steve - Austin , TX -RRB-
