During a Valentines Day 2009 visit to Las Vegas , PWT 's principal singer and song crafter Tom Higgenson was bowled over by a Cirque du Soleil show , O , and it made him wonder if it would be possible to capture the same anything-can-happen spirit on record .
`` The entire show has pirate ships , clowns and carousel horses coming up and going back into the pool , and at one point there 's a piano that comes up out of the water , and it was really epic , '' he recalled .
`` I just loved it , and it gave me that feeling of being a kid and seeing Goonies for the first time , or Indiana Jones -- so adventurous and imaginative and different .
I left there wanting to make an album that gave people that same feeling .
`` Higgenson held onto that concept through the full year of writing for The Wonders of the Younger that followed .
`` There are songs like the title track and ` Welcome to Mystery ' and ` Cirque Dans La Rue ' that are a little bit more in your face with the idea of it , '' he said .
`` But even with songs like ` Boomerang ' that are not necessarily all about being young or being a kid , I still had that theme in the back of my head . ''
Cirque du Soleil -LRB- English : `` Circus of the Sun '' -RRB- , is a Canadian entertainment company founded in the Quebec town of Baie-Saint-Paul in 1984 by two former street performers , Guy Laliberté and Daniel Gauthier .
Each show is a synthesis of circus styles from around the world , with its own central theme and storyline , drawing the audience into the performance through continuous live music .
Cirque has expanded rapidly worldwide since the beginning of 1990s .
The multiple permanent Las Vegas shows alone play to more than 9,000 people a night , 5 % of the city 's visitors .
Higgenson told Alternative Press magazine : `` This is the most unique and exciting song on the album , and definitely one of my favorites .
The whole concept for the album was inspired by the Cirque Du Soleil show O .
This song is kind of my tribute to the guts , the creativity and the emotion that show delivered .
For me , this is the climax of the album . ''
