Many of Taylor 's fans believe the subject matter of this song to be American actor Taylor Lautner , whom she dated briefly at the end of 2009 .
Although the Love Story singer wo n't confirm whether the speculation is true or not , she told New York magazine about the event that inspired her to pen this song .
`` It was at an awards show and there had been this falling-out between me and this guy , '' she explained .
`` I think both of us had so much that we wanted to say , but we 're sitting six seats away from each other , just fighting this silent war of ' I do n't care that you 're here . '
`` Taylor continued , `` I remember getting home and sitting at the kitchen table , and saying to my mom , ` It was like I was standing alone in a crowded room . '
That 's when my eyes glazed over , and I got distracted and walked away to write . ''
She added , `` My mom is used to me doing that . ''
This was the last song that Taylor wrote for Speak Now .
She told MTV News that after the incident with her former beau at the Awards show , `` I just felt so empty , like we were both fighting this silent war of pretending we did n't care that the other was there .
And I went home , and I wrote this song about it .
And at that point , I had this gut feeling , and I knew the album was finished . ''
The music video was directed by Noble Jones and finds Taylor in college , reminiscing about her relationship with a fellow student .
She explained of her input to MTV News : `` Noble Jones , the director , had sent in this treatment .
He had it set in a library , and I called him and I asked him if he 'd be willing to change it to an Ivy League feel . ''
MTV asked Taylor if the heroine in the video was at all connected to her `` You belong With Me '' character .
`` Well , I think the biggest difference between the new video and all the other ones is that I love to make a happy ending happen , and with this video , it does n't happen , '' she replied .
Taylor was asked in an interview with MTV News if she is aware that her potential suitors might have some reservations as she might write a song about them .
She replied : `` It 's understandable , but I 've never kept quiet the fact that I write songs about people , '' she said .
`` It 's like , this is album number three .
You guys have had fair warning ! ''
As on her other albums , Taylor capitalized seemingly random letters in the printed lyrics for each song , which spell out messages , usually about who or what inspired the tune .
On this song she spells out `` CMT AWARDS , '' which points the finger at fellow CMT attendee John Mayer who performed a number with Keith Urban at the ceremony .
Also , Mayer is thought to be the subject of another Speak Now track , Dear John and Taylor confessed to USA Today writer Brian Mansfield that both songs were inspired by the same person .
The girl who makes out with Swift 's love interest in the video was played by her backup singer Liz Huett .
Swift told MTV News how she met Huett .
`` We met in a meet-and-greet line .
I started out playing small bars and clubs a few years ago , and she came to one of the shows , and I would sign autographs ... and she waited three or four hours , '' Swift recalled .
`` And she came up and asked if she could sing for me .
She sang for me , and I said , ` You 've got to audition for some TV talent show . '
And I ran into her a few months later , and one thing led to another and she ended up being my backup singer on tour and making out with a guy in my video . ''
