This playful track about two friends deciding to start a band is a duet with Keith Urban .
Paisley and the New Zealand singer have been friends since before either of them had record deals .
This is one of four vocal tracks from Paisley 's mainly instrumental album Play .
In 2007 Paisley won the Best Instrumental Grammy for `` Throttleneck . ''
When this reached # 1 on the Hot Country Songs chart , it became the 13th chart-topper for Paisley and the ninth for Urban .
Paisley said of this song to The Cleveland Plain Dealer : `` It 's probably not what you think , in the sense that it 's not a blazing fast thing .
It 's more of a rockin ' Eagles style tune like back when Joe Walsh and Don Felder would play those harmony parts . ''
Brad Paisley told AOL he 'd been intending to record something with Urban for a long time and it was a wonderful thing to finally get to do so with his friend .
He explained : `` When I called him I said I had a couple ideas for what we could do .
One of them was just go write a real fast guitar instrumental and try to blow people 's minds .
The other was this song about starting a band that was pitched for my last record that I did n't cut .
I told him the words to ` Start A Band ' and sent it to him .
He cracked up when he heard it because we 've both been through this so much in our lives , just our attempts to be cool as guitar players you know , and wanting to fit in .
`` Paisley added that when it came to record this song he was determined that the end result would be more than just two entertainers playing together .
He explained : `` I could n't finally get the chance to play with Keith and do just some obscure artsy thing that no one was going to appreciate .
I was like , ` Let 's do something really cool that people are going to talk about and want to hear . '
So we went in and had fun and he worked his butt off on that song .
He spent all day doing harmony parts with his guitar and came up with lines I never would have had on that chorus . ''
Paisley and Urban were the first male duo to have a country # 1 since Kenny Chesney and Uncle Kracker reigned for five weeks in April and May 2004 with `` When the Sun Goes Down . ''
