On November 1 , 2010 , Demi 's publicist announced the Disney star had entered a treatment facility for `` physical and emotional issues , '' which was subsequently reported to include an eating disorder and self-cutting .
Her first single since her stint in treatment finds the singer/actress finding strength in the wake of a fading relationship and it symbolizes her resilience in the face of her personal issues .
In a Seventeen magazine blog post , she wrote , `` This song is so special to me because it 's inspired by my journey and the struggles that I 've dealt with this past year .
I hope people are able to relate to it and realize that they are able to rise above and overcome any obstacle , no matter the circumstances , and shine like a skyscraper .
I am still on a personal journey dealing with my own issues each and every day , but the best advice I can give to anyone going through a rough patch is to never be afraid to ask for help .
`` The song premiered July 12 , 2011 on Ryan Seacrest 's morning radio show and was released on July 14 , 2011 .
The empowering ballad was produced and co-penned by Toby Gad , whose other credits include Beyoncé 's `` If I Were a Boy , '' Fergie 's `` Big Girls Do n't Cry '' and Selena Gomez & the Scenes 's `` A Year Without Rain . ''
The other co-writers were Lindy Robbins who also co-penned Demi 's hit single , `` Here We Go Again '' and Estonian singer-songwriter Kerli .
It was originally penned for the latter 's sophomore album .
Demi , who is of part Mexican descent -LRB- as well as part Irish and Italian -RRB- , also recorded a Spanish language version of the song titled `` Rascacielo , '' which is the Spanish word for skyscraper .
So , why did Demi chose to lead Unbroken with this ballad when most of the other tracks are more upbeat ?
She explained to the Associated Press : `` I had to release it because I wanted to talk about the issues and the journey that I 've been on , and I did n't want to just like come out with a dance song right off the bat , and people are like , `` Wait .
What ?
I thought she was just in rehab and then this happened and now she 's coming out with a dance song ? ''
It did n't make sense .
So I wanted to have a song that explained it , and was emotional enough . ''
A cover version by 2013 X Factor winner Sam Bailey topped the UK charts in the week after she won the competition .
Demi recorded two versions of the song -- one in 2010 when she was battling her issues and the other after she left treatment .
She told E !
News , `` It just did n't feel the same , so we kept the original one .
For me it was ... so symbolic , it being the song I recorded before treatment and yet it was providing a message .
It 's so crazy the way things played out , that it ended up being my symbol and it represented what I 'm trying to spread the word about : getting help and rising above any issues that -LSB- I and -RSB- my fans are dealing with . ''
The Mark Pellington-directed video took 12 hours to shoot and features a distressed Lovato alone in a desert , emoting to the camera as she sings as a reference to her stint in rehab .
`` That video was an emotional release for me , like therapy ... I kept crying , I was so emotionally invested ... That 's when I realized , that 's what music videos are all about , '' she told Ryan Seacrest .
Demi admitted on Late Night With Jimmy Fallon that she does n't actually speak a word of Spanish .
When the singer performed the song at the American Latino Media Arts Awards she decided to sing it in `` Spanglish , '' as she just could n't memorize the lyrics in full Spanish .
Even then Demi was forced to use additional help , as she revealed : `` While I 'm like gliding through fog in a tight red dress , I 'm reading a teleprompter , trying to look graceful , praying to God I do n't fall . ''
The song returned the UK singles in September 2013 , reaching its highest chart position to date of # 7 .
The renewed interest in the track was as a result of it being played during an audition sequence on an episode of The X Factor , then being performed the following week by Hannah Sheares in her Wembley Arena live audition .
