Written by The Cult lead singer Ian Astbury and guitarist Billy Duffy , this song is for the folks who do n't always fit in .
When we spoke with Ian Astbury , he explained : `` It 's really referring to the outsider .
I think when you 're a kid , you go to school , you find your peer group , you find your social group very quickly .
And it becomes evident what kind of path is going to be laid out for you .
I went to like 12 schools when I was a kid growing up , so I always found myself on the outside of the group .
The typical definition is like the jocks versus the nerds - that 's the classical boundary .
But it 's a little bit more complex than that.I immigrated to Canada when I was a kid , so I had quite an experience in school being an immigrant .
They were n't really concerned about the color of my skin , my ethnicity , it was more about the fact that I was an immigrant .
I was just thrown in with everybody else .
I had one friend from Turkey , Ankara .
I had another friend form Kingston , Jamaica - Leroy .
There were native kids I used to hang out with , Iroquois kids , these two brothers .
We used to hang out together , and that was my peer group .
So it 's about being the eternal outsider .
I know where that place is . ''
This is the first single from Choice of Weapon , the ninth album by the British rock band The Cult .
Recording sessions began in March 2011 and over the next ten months took place at studios in New York City , Los Angeles , the band 's Witch Mountain studio , and the California high desert .
Frontman Ian Astbury explained the reasoning behind the album name to Spinner : '' ` Choice of Weapon ' is the title , and it evolved through many permutations , like ` Weapon of Choice ' or ` Choice of Weapons . '
I had like 30 .
` Choice of Weapon ' struck me , since you 're having a choice , as individuals and society , and the weapon is a metaphor or it could be a mantra .
Or a knife or a gun .
Or a pen .
Your art , creativity can be your weapon of cultural revolution.It 's spiritual , too .
We can inflict violence or share knowledge , and this permeates throughout the songs , which are about experiences where I had to make a choice or decision .
It 's lyrically very intimate .
It 's loss , celebration and how can we not be caught up in the Occupy movement or the farcical political circus that we see every day ?
It 's blasts of feel good rock 'n' roll , and it 's more cinematic . ''
