This song was written by Yes lead singer Jon Anderson and guitarist Steve Howe .
Jon Anderson has said that many times the lyrics he writes reveal their meanings to him later .
He told us that this song is one such example .
`` The lyrics , ` Season witch could call you from the depths of your disgrace , ' I realized what I was singing was all about the idea that your higher self will always save you if you keep your heart in the right place , '' he said .
-LRB- Here 's our full Jon Anderson interview . -RRB-
It was during the recording of this album , and particularly this song that Bill Bruford decided to part with the band .
He felt the group was going too far with the progressive music and he also felt he had nothing to contribute to the new direction -LRB- Rick Wakeman would leave for similar reasons after the band 's next album , Tales From Topographic Oceans -RRB- .
He quit shortly after they finished the album , prompting Jon Anderson and Chris Squire to politely ask session drummer Alan White to join for the upcoming tour just days away , or be thrown out of the window of the room they were in .
He agreed and has been with the band ever since .
-LRB- thanks , Adrian - Brookings , SD -RRB- During a radio show call Yes Music : An Evening With Jon Anderson , the singer explained : `` The end verse is a dream that I had a long time ago about passing on from this world to another world , yet feeling so fantastic about it that death never frightened me ever since .
That 's what seemed to come out in this song , that it was a very pastoral kind of experience rather than a very frightening one . ''
This song came about at a time when the members of Yes were concerned with how to follow up their successful Fragile album .
Rick Wakeman had joined Jon Anderson , Steve Howe , Chris Squire , and Bill Bruford on that album .
Yes had already amassed an impressive collection of epics that hovered around the ten-minute mark , exceeding what was perceived as the standard length in popular music .
But song length itself was n't the point : the band wanted to take the time to say what they had to say .
-LRB- thanks , Joe - Albion , NY -RRB- This was one of the songs Yes recorded that could n't be recreated live without some outside help .
They solved this problem by bringing their producer , Eddy Offord , on the road .
He put various church organs , sound effects and vocal bits onto tape , and played them during performances at opportune times from a Revox tape machine .
On this track , he was the live sound of the pipe organ and the waterfall .
Jon Anderson is no fan of organized religion , and he takes some shots at the institution in this song , both in the lyrics -LRB- `` How many millions do we deceive each day ? '' -RRB-
and in the music : a church organ comes in , which is replaced by a Moog synthesizer .
`` This leads to another organ solo rejoicing in the fact that you can turn your back on churches and find it within yourself to be your own church , '' Anderson said .
