One Direction reworked Blondie 's 1978 track with a bit of the Undertones ' classic punk track `` Teenage Kicks '' mashed in , as the official Comic Relief single for the 2013 charity campaign .
The song was recorded to mark the 25th anniversary of Red Nose Day , a fundraising event held by the organization televised lived by the BBC on March 15 , 2013 .
The single was produced by Julian Bunetta , who 'd previously worked with the band on their Take Me Home tracks `` C'mon , C'mon , '' `` I Would , '' and `` They Do n't Know About Us . ''
He has also helmed songs for the likes of Leona Lewis , JLS , Sean Kingston and Natasha Bedingfield .
Bunetta revealed to MTV News that it was Simon Cowell who came up with the idea for covering the Blondie track , `` because obviously it 's a really cheeky song and it 's very fun and also it was very unexpected . ''
He added .
`` And I think that he wanted to do something that was out of the ordinary that people would n't expect .
And , it obviously is fun and that works with the whole Comic Relief thing and the whole Comic Relief idea . ''
The One Direction boys decided to film the song 's music video themselves during trips around the world in order to save money for the charity .
As well as scenes shot on the road in London , New York , Tokyo and Ghana , the clip also features an appearance by British Prime Minister outside his official residence at 10 Downing Street .
We see Mr Cameron hugging Harry Styles as the 1D member sings the line : `` I wan na hold you , wan na hold you tight . ''
The PM said he `` enjoyed '' his cameo adding `` Glad to help with the filming location ! ''
The song was one of the fastest-selling Comic Relief singles ever , hitting # 1 on iTunes charts in 63 countries during its first week on sale .
The quintet did not receive any payment regarding their contribution to the charity single , with the proceeds going to those affected by famine in Africa .
Louis Tomlinson said : `` Red Nose Day is a great excuse to have a lot of fun and to raise money , please get involved . ''
The song was supposed to be released as a download on February 17 , 2013 , but leaked a fortnight previously .
Tomlinson expressed his concern over what its premature appearance on the web might mean for proceeds .
`` I hear the charity single has been leaked .
Very sad to see .
Do n't forget together we are trying to raise money for Comic Relief , '' he tweeted .
`` Please get behind an incredible charity and make a real difference . ''
The One Direction guys began their work on the track with Bunetta , in late 2012 .
`` It was an interesting process ... because we had to re-imagine it we only could do that once we heard the boys sing it .
We did n't produce the track first and then have them sing it .
I had them sing to just an acoustic guitar track only , that 's it , '' he recalled to MTV News `` We went in the studio , all the boys had known the song .
And we listened to it over and over and we basically laid down an acoustic guitar and we picked out favorite parts and we sang them .
`` We had a lot of fun and then I came back to L.A. with all the vocal files and then spent a good amount of time trying to re-imagine it and how it could work and how I could make the sound fit , '' he continued .
`` It took a little bit of time , but I 'm really pleased with the results , and I hope the 1D fans are really pleased with the results .
They gave the song a new twist and a new life so I had to make sure I built it from there and accentuated and magnified what they brought to it .
I built a box around them . ''
The song topped the singles charts in several countries including Denmark , Ireland , The Netherlands and the UK .
Blondie frontwoman Deborah Harry told The Daily Star she thought One Direction did a good job with their version of her band 's hit tune .
`` Making a mash-up of our song by putting it together with The Undertones ' track was entirely appropriate , '' she said , adding : `` One Direction 's take had a similar spirit to our early cover versions .
They seem good kids . ''
