David Lee Roth has given various accounts of the meaning behind the lyrics , but he usually says they are about a TV news story he saw where a man was about to kill himself by jumping off a building -LRB- Roth thought , `` Might as well jump '' -RRB- .
He 's also said the song is about a stripper .
Eddie Van Halen played this on an Oberheim OB-Xa synthesizer -LRB- Oberheim was a large synth manufacturer during the '80s -RRB- .
He was classically trained on piano growing up , and did n't start playing guitar until he was a teenager .
-LRB- thanks , William - Brentwood , TN -RRB- As early as 1981 , Eddie Van Halen had written the keyboard part that would eventually become this song .
David Lee Roth did n't like the idea of Eddie playing keyboards , and it was n't until Eddie had built his own recording studio -LRB- 5150 -RRB- that he recorded the song with Ted Templeman during a late night recording session .
When hearing the song , the band decided to include it on the 1984 album - something that is rumored to have contributed to Roth 's departure a year later .
-LRB- thanks , Eric - Atlanta , GA -RRB- The video was low budget but highly successful .
Directed by Pete Angelus and the band , it was simply 8 millimeter film footage of Van Halen performing , highlighted by Roth 's slow motion spread-eagle jump .
While it looks kind of ridiculous today , the video was groundbreaking and set the standard for cheap performance videos that hapless directors still try to emulate .
To produce such a video , the band is filmed performing the song several times from beginning to end .
Then , the band members are filmed doing random stage moves without the pretense of actually playing the song -LRB- note that Eddie is seen playing the guitar at times when no guitar can be heard -RRB- .
Some candid footage is shot with the band goofing around , and it 's off to the edit room where the footage is chopped up into a video.While most bands lack the charisma to pull off moves like the `` bass player duck under the lead singer 's leg '' and `` point guitar directly into the camera , '' they try lame versions of it anyway , using such tactics as `` run to the camera and stop '' and `` blow a kiss . ''
In an age when anyone can make a video but most bands lack the money and talent to make a good one , these videos have proliferated , and none has lived up to the standard set by Van Halen with `` Jump . ''
For a good example of a low budget performance video gone horribly wrong , check out this clip from The Forgotten Rebels .
The B-side of the US single is `` House Of Pain . ''
In 1991 , a group called House Of Pain had a hit with a song called `` Jump Around . ''
This was the first album recorded at Eddie Van Halen 's 5150 studio .
In California , 5150 is police code for a mental case .
Aztec Camera recorded a mellow , acoustic cover in 1984 .
In an interview with Mix magazine , Daryl Hall said that the Hall & Oates song `` Kiss On My List '' was an influence on this one .
Said Hall : '' -LSB- Eddie -RSB- Van Halen told me that he copied the synth part from ` Kiss on My List ' and used it in ` Jump . '
I do n't have a problem with that at all . ''
This was Van Halen 's first # 1 hit , and their only # 1 with David Lee Roth as lead singer .
The synthesizer was a point of contention in the band .
Eddie wanted to use it , but Roth thought it would look like they were selling out to get more radio play .
Using a synthesizer instead of a guitar as the lead instrument was a huge departure for Van Halen , but most of their fans did n't hold it against them .
The album was released on January 9 , 1984 , ending -LRB- by nine days -RRB- Van Halen 's streak of releasing one album every year since 1978 .
The video won Best Stage Performance Video at the first MTV Video Music Awards in 1984 .
MTV quickly discontinued the category as music videos became more creative and relied less on footage of bands performing the song .
1984 was David Lee Roth 's last album with Van Halen , and the video for `` Jump '' conflated the tensions that led to his departure .
The video was produced by Robert Lombard , who wanted to show the personal side of the band on stage .
Roth , however , wanted the performance intercut with footage of him in various hedonistic pursuits , so they shot him doing things like riding a motorcycle and getting arrested while wearing nothing but a towel .
Lombard edited the video and used none of the extra Roth footage , taking it to Eddie and Alex for approval .
Two days later , the band 's manager fired him for bypassing Roth ; Lombard says he never received the award the video won from MTV.Even the performance scenes were delicate .
Lombard said in the book I Want My MTV : `` I did n't shoot them together until the end of the day .
I was trying to keep the peace , because I felt tension amongst them .
David thought he was bigger than the rest of them .
`` Some of the David Lee Roth specialty footage ended up in their video for `` Panama . ''
Roth was replaced in the band by Sammy Hagar in 1986 .
Eddie used the outro guitar solo at the very end of this song to come up with the idea for the intro guitar riff to Van Halen 's later hit , `` Standing On Top -LRB- Of The World -RRB- . ''
-LRB- thanks , Dave - Marieta , GA -RRB- Although `` Jump '' is fairly light-hearted for a rock single , in January 2010 a DJ who played it at an `` inappropriate time '' found himself in hot water .
The song was requested by a driver stuck in traffic on the M60 , and played by Steve Penk , who came underfire because the delay had been caused by police closing several lanes of the motorway while attempting to talk down a woman who was threatening to jump from a bridge .
After nearly nine hours , she leapt , shortly after the song was played .
Amazingly she survived , albeit with serious leg injuries .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England -RRB- Music rights body PRS For Music held a vote among its members to find out the most popular sporting song in the run up to the 2012 London Olympics .
`` Jump '' came top of the poll , with The Rolling Stones ' `` Start Me Up '' in second place and Jackie Wilson 's `` Higher and Higher '' in third .
