This is one of the hardest Queen songs to understand .
The opening line reads , `` Steve walks warily down the street , his brim pulled way down low .
Ai n't no sound but the sound of his feet , machine gun ready to go ... '' Also , the last phrase spoken in the song is not `` Shoot Her '' or `` Shooter , '' but `` Shoot Out . ''
Queen bass player John Deacon wrote this song .
All four members of Queen wrote songs , and each wrote at least one hit .
Deacon also wrote `` You 're My Best Friend .
`` Deacon was influenced by the Chic song Good Times .
In an interview with the New Musical Express , Chic bass player Bernard Edwards said : `` Well , that Queen record came about because that bass player spent some time hanging out with us at our studio .
But that 's OK .
What is n't OK is that the press started saying that we had ripped them off !
Can you believe that ?
` Good Times ' came out more than a year before , but it was inconceivable to these people that black musicians could possibly be innovative like that .
It was just these dumb Disco guys ripping off this Rock 'n' Roll song . ''
The drum track and the hand claps were looped .
They repeat throughout the song .
John Deacon claimed in a 1980 interview that Roger Taylor opposed the song 's drum beat .
However the drummer denied this in an interview with Mojo magazine October 2008 .
He insisted : `` I 'd already had an ineffectual pop at that kind of music with ` Fun It , ' on the Jazz album .
I was never against ` Another One Bites The Dust , ' but I was against releasing it as a single . ''
Freddie Mercury loved this track .
Brian May recalled to Mojo : `` Freddie sung until his throat bled on Another One Bites The Dust .
He was so into it .
He wanted to make that song something special . ''
Queen were originally reluctant to release this as a single , but backstage after a Queen gig at the Los Angeles forum , a visiting Michael Jackson convinced them it would be a hit .
`` Michael and all his brothers were all going ` That 's a fantastic track .
You must release it , ' '' recalled Queen drummer Roger Taylor to Q magazine December 2009 .
Though probably not intentional unless someone did an excellent splicing job , the `` Another one bites the dust '' line quite clearly says '' ... Decide to smoke marijuana '' when played backwards .
This is especially clear toward the end of the track when Mercury repeats the line with only the drums playing .
-LRB- thanks , Brandon - Mauriceville , TX , for above 2 -RRB- Deacon played most of the instruments on the track : lead and rhythm guitars , bass , reversed piano and additional percussion .
Brian May did some guitar effects with harmoniser -LRB- in the interlude -RRB- , and Roger Taylor played the drum loop .
Surprisingly , there are no synthesizers .
While the band and producer Reinhold Mack were mixing the track , Brian May 's roadie suggested it to be released as single ; the band did n't like the idea but were finally talked into doing it when Michael Jackson , after a concert , suggested the same idea .
-LRB- thanks , sebas - Tokyo , Japan , for above 2 -RRB- In 1998 , this was used in a commercial for AIWA sound systems .
In the ad , a guy drives around with this blaring from his car stereo .
At the end of the commercial , we realize he is driving a hearse .
During production of the movie Rocky III , this was used in a key scene where Rocky is training for a fight .
Producers could not get permission to use the song , so Sylvester Stallone hired Survivor to write an original song instead , which turned out to be `` Eye Of The Tiger . ''
Weird Al Yankovic got his first chart placing with his parody of this song : `` Another One Rides The Bus . ''
It bubbled under on the Hot 100 , placing at # 104 in 1981 .
After a few more minor hits , he landed `` Eat It '' at # 12 in 1984 .
