The Edge told Mojo magazine January 2009 that this song was inspired by an FX pedal recommended to him by Ben Curtis of Secret Machines .
He explained : `` It 's this kind of 21st century distortion .
Guitar is such a versatile instrument , anything that gives it a different personality . ''
This song started off as an improvised slow-paced ambient number before being reworked into a Punk-Rock tune .
The Edge told Rolling Stone : `` It 's very raw and very to the point .
It 's like Rock & Roll 2009 . ''
The Edge explained to Rolling Stone that the album title `` is an image . ''
He added : `` Bono tells me .
It 's like when you 're moving forward , but you 're not exactly sure what you 're heading towards - that moment where the sea and the sky blend into one .
It 's an image of infinity , I suppose - a kind of Zen image . ''
The album was leaked online a few weeks before its official release , prompting US to make it available for streaming on their MySpace page .
They decided it was better for fans to stream it for free than to download it illegally .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The song 's title was inspired by the view from Bono 's study window on the Irish coast at a certain time of day , when the sea seems to melt into the sky .
Bono told Q magazine February 2009 , that the No Line on the Horizon album is divided into two parts , `` Dark '' and `` Daylight . ''
He said : `` In my head , it all happens over 24 hours . ''
Co-producer Daniel Lanois told Brad Frenette of the Canadian newspaper The National Post the story of this song : `` Larry Mullen was - without anyone else playing - he was just trying out a few beats on the drums .
And Brian Eno sampled him .
Brian Eno 's station was right next to Larry 's - we have little stations in the studio - so at any point Brian could record what Larry was doing , and manipulate it and sample it and so on .
He did that , and it started out as a little Bo Diddley sample beat .
Kind of jazzy , but it had a vibe to it .
As soon as Eno sampled that , we jumped right on top of it and started playing over it , including Larry .
And we came up with what I think is space age rock and roll - space age rockabilly .
Bono had this idea - where the sea meets the sky and you ca n't tell the difference between the two .
And the vocal happened very early on , that whole - a-whoawhoawhoawhoa !
- that little hook .
The vocal delivery , the vibe was there right from day one .
I was very proud of Bono . ''
