A `` Dutchie '' is a Jamaican cooking pot , and while there 's not much reason to pass one around , it was an acceptable substitute for the original lyric : `` Pass The Kutchie , '' Kutchie being Jamaican slang for a pot that holds marijuana .
`` Pass The Kutchie '' was a song that came out earlier in 1982 by the Reggae group The Mighty Diamonds , which was adapted by Musical Youth , or at least their handlers - the five boys in the group were between the ages of 11 and 16 years old at the time , and their manager suggested they record the song with the modified lyric.The Mighty Diamonds `` Pass The Kutchie '' had a heavy , slow beat and got very little airplay , but Musical Youth 's take on the song was an instant hit in the UK , where it sold 100,000 copies the first day it was released and made # 1 in September , 1982 .
The band members were of Jamaican descent and lived in the Birmingham area of England .
The group was formed by Freddie Waite , who had been in a Reggae band in Jamaica .
Waite put his two sons , Patrick and Junior , in the band with two of their classmates , Kevin and Michael Grant , and recorded a single on their own called `` Political , '' which got the attention of the BBC DJ John Peel , who played it on his show .
This led to a deal with MCA Records , who convinced Waite to replace himself with a youngster : 14-year-old Dennis Seaton .
The group , now entirely under age , was seasoned for about 6 months before their The Youth Of Today album was released and `` Pass The Dutchie , '' the first single , became a huge hit .
Musical Youth had genuine talent and played their own instruments , but they suffered from poor and/or corrupt management , and they quickly floundered .
They had more success in the UK , with hits `` Youth Today '' and `` Never Gon na Give You Up , '' but in 1985 they were dropped from their label MCA Records and replaced by New Edition as the hot boy band .
When the band fell apart , some of the group members struggled ; Patrick Waite got involved with drugs and died in 1993 at age 24 .
His brother Junior Waite was later institutionalized , and Kelvin Grant went into seclusion .
The lyrics are really a faux pas in etiquette .
When passing a cooking pot -LRB- or anything else on the table -RRB- , you pass it to your right , not your left .
You can pass to your immediate left only if the item requested is closest to you .
-LRB- thanks , Patrick - Tallapoosa , GA -RRB- Musical Youth became the first black act to get regular rotation on MTV when `` Pass The Dutchie '' was added to their playlist , preceding Michael Jackson 's `` Billie Jean '' video by a few weeks .
The MTV airplay helped break the song in the United States , and it entered the Top 40 on January 15 , 1983 , reaching its peak position of # 1 on February 26 .
The video was directed by Don Letts , a black filmmaker from England who would later work with The Clash , directing their `` Rock the Casbah '' clip .
Letts was aware of the color barrier on MTV and went out of his way to make sure the kids appeared as non-threatening as possible in the video .
The network flatly rejected Rick James , but they were OK with little kids singing in British accents .
This was used in the 2000 movie The Wedding Singer .
When remaining band members did n't get the royalties they expected , they sued their former law firm , which they claimed failed to protect the copyright to the song .
This lawsuit was rejected in British court on grounds that they did n't write the song and thus were n't entitled to any of the publishing rights , but the group later sued their old record company MCA , and reached a settlement for performance royalties they were denied .
These legal actions reunited band members Michael Grant and Dennis Seaton , who began performing again , mostly on '80s nostalgia shows .
