This is the first single from alternative rock band Switchfoot 's seventh studio album , Hello Hurricane .
It was helmed by noted producer/bassist Mike Elizondo -LRB- Dr. Dre , Rilo Kiley , Eminem and Pink -RRB- .
The song is a protest against society 's obsession with the pharmaceutical industry and its need to live forever , using drugs as a means to that end .
Jon Foreman , lead singer of Switchfoot , explained to NewReleaseTuesday : `` Lyrically the song is yearning for abundant life to spring from past mistakes .
The song attempts to explore the darkest parts of the human animal and transcend them , rising above these gloomy moments to find true life .
If you 're Freud , you call these darker urges the death drive .
If you 're St. Paul , you talk about doing the things you do n't want to do .
Whatever you call them , these dark places destroy us if we leave them unchecked .
I feel that tension everyday , between the right and the wrong , between life and death .
And yet there is no easy path to freedom from self .
It 's a narrow road and few find it .
We 've all thought about the quick fix : that special something/someone that could take the pain away .
Yet the problems in my life are much bigger than any temporary solution .
We die a little everyday - physically , spiritually ; we are in sorry shape .
Ai n't no drug to make me well .
Ai n't no drug that can relieve me from the monster of myself .
Ai n't no one to blame .
But my decision is made .
I want to follow this through ... I want to spend the rest of my life alive.This tune has lived several lives all revolving around the guitar hook .
It started out as a song called `` I Saw Satan -LRB- Fall Like Lightning -RRB- '' I wrote it a couple years back when I was stealing heavily from scripture .
We dragged it into the studio with Charlie Peacock for a week of recording at Big Fish Studios and came out with a really great bridge .
Then we wrote a new chorus , called the song ` There Ai n't No Drug ' and built the verse lyrics around the new chorus .
We made the bridge the chorus after that .
-LRB- And at this point I was about as lost as you , dear reader .
These are the limitations of having no limitations ! -RRB-
So we stepped away from this song .
We knew it was a great one , we were just too inside it .
When we came back to it we realized that we were really close ... we just needed the final push - so we re-tracked everything at Mike 's place .
Tim -LRB- Foreman , bass -RRB- was the champion of this tune : lifting it from one phase to the next , never giving up on the riff .
I 'm really proud of Tim for pushing through till the final version that ended up on the record . ''
Switchfoot first performed the song live at the Big Ticket Festival in Michigan on June 18 , 2009 .
Before Hello Hurricane was released , Jon Foreman discussed the upcoming album and noted that one of the tracks had a '' -LSB- Led -RSB- Zeppelin feel . ''
`` Mess of Me '' is probably the song he was referring to , as several listeners have noted its musical similarities to the Led Zeppelin sound .
-LRB- thanks , Eric - Stamps , AR -RRB-
