Many of the lyrics that Vic Fuentes writes for Pierce the Veil are personal , self-admittedly first starting out as poetry scribbled down in notebooks .
The story behind `` Bulls in the Bronx , '' however , is somewhat different .
Vic received an email from a pair of fans whose friend , a 16 year old girl , had recently committed suicide .
The email included a link to girl 's Tumblr .
Speaking to Mind Equals Blown , Vic said that `` it was one of the most haunting things I 've ever seen .
There were things on there where she would say how she thought she was worthless , ugly , all of this crazy stuff .
That whole thing really stuck with me for a while , and I wrote this song about her .
`` The song is written from the perspective of a nameless narrator and describes her efforts to find love and beauty in a world that seems intent on denying her both .
The song 's imagery grows steadily grim and more depressing , finally culminating in a tragic conclusion .
Vic keeps the lyrics imprecise and universal , so that this could be any sad and lost person , not necessarily the girl who inspired it .
The song 's music video was directed by Drew Russ and shot on location in Pasadena .
The clip finds the band performing the tune live in a 100-year-old house as two young lovers meet in secret and are transported into a bull-fighting dream world only to have their rendezvous interrupted by an enraged father .
`` I really wanted to have a story people could relate to , as well as have a fun supernatural element to fit the bridge of the song , '' Russ told MTV News .
`` To me , this is such a standout song , and when the bridge hits , it almost transports the listener to another place .
I really wanted to represent that on camera . ''
The song is the lead single off of the band 's 2012 album , Collide With the Sky .
According to Vic Fuentes , the title refers the importance of being able to find away to distance yourself from all the chaos in your life .
`` When the ground crumbles beneath you , '' he explained on his Tumblr , `` your first instinct is to run and jump to safety , and it 's the moment where you 're suspended in the air that I want to focus on .
It 's about freeing yourself from the things that are breaking or falling apart in your life , and inspiring a sense of hope from desperation . ''
