This brooding duet with urban music singer-songwriter Jessie J was produced by Mark Taylor , who helmed Morrison 's previous hook up with a female vocal partner , `` Broken Strings . ''
Lyrically , the song was inspired by Morrison 's strained relationship with his late father , Paul .
He died in 2010 from heart failure after a protracted and painful battle with alcoholism .
`` It was basically me saying to him : ` I 'm not going to put up with your s -- t , but I want you to know you have got the strength to turn it around for yourself , ' the singer said .
`` I did n't explain any of that to Jessie , though -- I 'd only just met her .
We just focused on her delivering a s -- t-hot vocal . ''
Morrison told Aol Music he first came across Jessie several years before they collaborated on the song at a gig .
He recalled : `` She was warming up in the corridor .
I 've never heard a girl sing the way she did before .
I went , ` Who the hell is that ? '
She came in and introduced herself and was very boisterous .
I was still quite shy at that time .
She was like , ` Hi , I 'm Jessie J and we 're going to be singing together one day . '
And I was like , ` Oh , how 's that ? '
And we did ! ''
Morrison 's longstanding A&R man , Colin Barlow , suggested the collaboration with Jessie J. `` Not that I was doubting Jessie 's ability in any way , '' the singer said , `` But I was worried whether she was the right character for the song .
She got in the booth and did all this stuff that was amazing - -- she is a ridiculously good singer , so in tune she 's like Autotune .
I wanted to tap into the side of her character that is just a normal girl .
I was like , you 're a Ferrari , Jessie , you 're in fifth gear -- take it down to third .
In the end it worked amazingly : she sang the chorus the way I should 've sung it ! ''
While detractors have accused this duet of being the convenient merger of two big pop brands , Morrison had purer reasons for collaborating with Jessie J on this song .
He explained to The Guardian that he asked her to sing as the song is about his dad , and he felt the lyric so deeply that he could n't face doing it on his own .
`` I 'd never do a duet for -LSB- mercenary -RSB- reasons , '' he said .
`` With Up , with me alone on it , it would 've been too personal , but with her it was more neutral . ''
