This is an adaptation of Rudyard Kipling 's poem If .
Mitchell changed the last verse and updated the language .
This features American jazz pianist Herbie Hancock on piano .
Shine peaked at # 14 on the US Billboard chart , Mitchell 's highest position since her 1976 Hejira album , which peaked at # 13 .
Mitchell told Mojo Magazine February 2008 how this was one of the first songs she wrote after 9 years of feeling too demoralized by criticism to pen anything : `` I have this piece of land -LRB- in British Columbia -RRB- that I return to in the summer .
It 's where I do most of my writing , where I restore my soul .
I had n't played an instrument in 9 years , 10 years , something like that and I just felt this rush of gratitude for the property .
I would stand on my front porch of this tiny , 800-square foot house at night and the big dipper was all you would see .
I was happy .
I ran to the piano and the first piece on the album just poured out .
I even called it Gratitude for a while .
I started playing on the piano and in a short period of time I had 4 piano songs , but no words .
Then a friend called and said he had just discovered the If poem by Kipling and I thought that would be good to set to music and that came easy .
Usually I do the music first , which is harder .
It was easy having the words first . ''
If was written by British writer Rudyard Kipling in 1895 and first appeared in print in his 1910 collection of short stories and poems , Rewards and Fairies .
Kipling modeled his ideal on the character of the British colonial statesman Dr Jameson .
In 1896 he led the Jameson Raid in South Africa in support of the non-Boer colonists there , in an unsuccessful attempt to overthrow the government .
Despite his failure , the British press considered Jameson to be a hero in the midst of a disaster .
If was voted the nation 's favorite poem in a 1995 poll of BBC listeners .
Some consider it to be the world 's most successful poem , having been translated into 27 languages .
