`` Miserlou '' is a traditional Mediterranean song dating to the 1920s and originating in Greece .
It was la The word roughly translates to `` Arab Land . ''
Dick Dale reworked the song using his trademark Surf Rock sound , and this became the version of the song that caught on in America .
It was released as a single on the Del-Tone label in 1962 , and later that year as `` Miserlou Twist '' on his first album Surfers ' Choice .
As Surf Rock caught on , the song was recorded by The Beach Boys , The Ventures , The Surfaris , The Bobby Fuller Four and just about anyone looking for the young California sound .
Dale included a traditional version of the song on his 1993 album Tribal Thunder as a hidden track -LRB- you can thank Nirvana for the hidden track craze of the early '90s -RRB- .
Dale was showing his producer how the song was done originally , and they decided to include it with the set .
There has been a lot of misinformation about the `` Surf Sound '' that Dale created .
In a 1995 interview with Planet magazine , he explained : `` The sound is a Stratocaster guitar .
It 's the solidity of the wood -- the thicker the wood , the bigger and purer the sound .
It was a Strat .
Not the Jaguar , not the Jazzmaster , all these things we created later , for different reasons .
Even the reverb - reverb had nothing to do with the surfing sound , and here they got 'em on the cover going ` That 's the wet , splashy sound of reverb . '
No !
We created the reverb because Dick Dale did not have a natural vibrato on his voice .
I wanted to sustain my notes while singing .
So we copied the Hammond organ , which had a tank in it .
We took the tank out , rewired it , and had an outboard reverb !
It was for the vocal .
Our first album , Surfer 's Choice , sold over 88,000 albums -- locally !
That 's like more than 4 million today .
Dick Dale was already established as King of the Surf Guitar , and that album did not have reverb on it .
It was n't even invented ! ''
Variations of the song have appeared in numerous movies , but when Dick Dale 's version was used to open the 1994 movie Pulp Fiction , it revived both Dale 's career and the Surf Music genre .
Dale earned his first appearance on The Late Show with David Letterman a few weeks after the movie came out , and became a popular live act once again .
His success in the '60s was limited to America , but this time he was welcomed in the UK , as well as Australia and Japan , where his sound caught on and he made tour appearances for the first time .
Dale 's `` Miserlou '' was also used in the movies Space Jam and Charlie 's Angels : Full Throttle .
Dick Dale got his start in the late '50s playing with his band The Del-Tones for surfers at the Rendezvous Ballroom in Balboa , California .
With authorities concerned about the mix of young people and guitars , one of the requirements at the Ballroom was that every male patron wear a tie , so the audience was often made up of barefooted guys in surfer garb wearing ties that were handed out at the door .
