Mortality has never been far from the surface of frontman Dave Matthews ' lyrics , since his sister was murdered by her husband in 1994 .
This song 's lyrical content took on greater meaning for the band after the tragic death of their sax player LeRoi Moore , as a result of injuries sustained in an ATV accident on his farm .
Matthews told Relix that he named the album before he wrote the lyrics to this song .
He said : `` I like the fact that we had come up with Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King before I wrote the lyrics to that song , so I was able to include it .
We were trying to think of names for the record , and GrooGrux was a name that Roi and Carter and Tim and some other musicians before our band used to call each other .
But it stuck with Roi .
He used to call Carter and Tim ` Grux , ' but they both called him that , and I might have called him that sometimes , too -- so it sort of stuck to him .
Roi would always say ` My name is King ' -- that 's what he would say about himself .
There 's not too much meaning in it ; I just liked the sound of GrooGrux King .
It 's a mouthful , though .
Then we were out at this photo shoot and there was this guy stumbling around , playing harmonica .
He 'd play something and then say ' I need a big whiskey !
, ' trying to get some money to go get a little more hammered .
And Fonz gave me a $ 20 , and I stepped off the shoot and gave it to the guy .
He glanced at the $ 20 like it was a single , and he said ' I said I need a ... I said I need a ... Oh .
That is a big whiskey ! '
And then he walked off to go and get his buzz .
But while he was screaming that , Rashawn , our trumpet player , said ` That 's a good name for the record . '
I really liked Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King because it sounds sort of like a fairytale , more like an old story . ''
Dave Matthews told Relix magazine : `` This song is definitely about death .
The whole thing of ` When my ghost takes me from you , you will remember the fool that I am , so do n't cry , baby do n't cry . '
The urgency of living , I think , is very present in this song .
We played it once in -LSB- the initial group improv sessions in -RSB- Charlottesville , and Roi said ' I love that jam . '
The horns on that particular song are from that first time we ever played it , before it was really a song , before it had a chorus or any bridges ; from that , we have Roi 's performance . ''
Matthews told Rolling Stone that the idea of Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King was to build songs out of improvised grooves .
He explained : `` We were recording all the time .
We limited each other .
Only a few minutes .
Once you find a groove , you can only do it for a couple minutes .
Nobody wants to prove how good their chops are .
No solos , f -- k you .
We were finding these feels , finding these moods , so we got quite a few of those . ''
