In our interview with Zac Hanson , the drummer explained : `` What that song talks about is , you 've got to hold on to the things that really matter .
MMMBop represents a frame of time or the futility of life .
Things are going to be gone , whether it 's your age and your youth , or maybe the money you have , and all that 's going to be left are the people you 've nurtured and have really built to be your backbone and your support system . ''
Experienced songwriters like Desmond Child and Barry Mann helped out with the album , but this was written entirely by the Hanson brothers .
Years later , young singers who could also write their own songs became coveted by record companies , as singers like Michelle Branch and Alicia Keys had lots of success .
Growing up , the Hanson brothers listened to a lot of '50s and '60s music .
Says Zac , `` If anything , MMMBop was inspired by The Beach Boys and vocal groups of that era - using your voice as almost a Doo-Wop kind of thing . ''
Hanson performed this on a bunch of TV shows , including both Leno and Letterman .
They also performed it on Saturday Night Live , where they took part in a skit where they were kidnapped in an elevator and forced to listen to the song over and over until they snapped .
Says Zac , `` You 've got to take yourself lightly , there 's always something funny or stupid that you do , and when it comes to performing on a live comedy show , I think if you did n't poke fun at yourself , you need to question who you think you are . ''
This song is melodically similar to the Westminster Quarters , which is the tune played on the hour by most grandfather clocks .
-LRB- thanks , Zach - Grayslake , IL -RRB- Zac Hanson has a co-writing credit on the track .
He was just 11 years and 7 months old when the song topped the Hot 100 , making him the youngest group member to co-write and perform on a US # 1 single .
The group released this on an independent album -LRB- also called MMMBop -RRB- in 1996 .
It helped get them a record deal and was released as their first single in 1997 , when Isaac Hanson was 16 years old , Taylor was 13 , and Zac was 11 .
The song quickly became a huge worldwide hit , getting constant airplay on radio stations and MTV and going to # 1 in 27 countries .
Zac Hanson : `` That song started out as the background part for another song .
We were making our first independent album and we were trying to come up with a background part .
We started singing a slightly different incarnation of what is now the chorus of MMMBop .
That sort of stuck in our heads but never really worked as a background part .
Over a couple of years , we really crafted the rest of the song - the verses and bridge and so on .
It was something we almost stumbled upon . ''
This was nominated for a Grammy for Record Of The Year .
Hanson performed it at the awards in 1998 .
Zac Hanson : `` Nobody expected it to have that much success .
You 're proud of everything you do and you 're confident in everything you do , but you never know how other people are going to react .
You just put your whole self into it and hopefully you can be successful . ''
Hanson took a cue from Kiss when it comes marketing , and set up their own brand distributing an assortment of products , including the Hansonopoly board game and Shout It Out guitar picks .
In 2011 , they announced that they would be selling an India Pale Ale beer called ... MMMHop .
