This was the first single released from Mariah Carey 's 12th studio album Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel .
Carey told the world via her twitter account : `` The 1st single from my new album Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel is called ` Obsessed ' and will be at radio next Tuesday .
I 'm a lil ' exc '' -LRB- the post cut off before she continued in another Tweet -RRB- .
`` Seriously , this is one of my favorite songs ever .
I love the whole album .
I 'm completely immersed in it .
I ca n't wait for you to hear it . ''
This was produced by The-Dream and Tricky Stewart -LRB- `` Umbrella '' -RRB- .
The duo helmed most of Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel .
Some reviewers have queried if this song targets the rapper Eminem , who has long claimed that he and Carey once had a relationship , something Mariah has always denied .
Eminem taunted Carey and her husband Nick Cannon on `` Bagpipes From Baghdad , '' a track on his Relapse album and it appears this is the singer 's reply .
The Dream said in an interview with HipHopDX.com prior to its release , that the song is `` going to light the blogs up too because you do n't know who she talking about , but she 's talking about something .
And remember The-Dream told you first .
So you can start that up right now .
Mariah Carey has a record , and somebody 's going to be very upset .
I said that . ''
A re-mix was recorded , featuring the Atlanta-raised rapper Gucci Mane .
Gucci told MTV News that 50 Cent 's manager , Chris Lighty , orchestrated his guest appearance .
He added : `` The song came out hard .
Mariah knew I wanted to do a song with her .
It finally happened , and it turned out hard .
I just flew up there to New York , went in the studio with her .
I flew right out and went back on the road .
When I do a song with people , I like to really get in the studio with them so I could feel they swag and they could feel mine .
The music comes out better . ''
Carey 's husband , Nick Cannon , told MTV News that rather than being an Eminem diss , the main inspiration for the song was a Lindsay Lohan movie .
He said : `` To be completely honest , she did the record 'cause she 's a huge fan of this movie Mean Girls , and there 's a line in the movie where one of the girls is like , ` Why are you so obsessed with me ? '
She says that at the beginning of the song , and that 's where the concept came from .
But you know , art imitates life . ''
Ratner told MTV News that the video was principally inspired by two films .
He explained : `` It was inspired by a movie that I love called The King of Comedy , when Sandra Bernhard was stalking Jerry Lewis - and that 's why I wanted to move it to New York .
Mariah loves Mean Girls .
I think it 's funny -LSB- when the stalker gets hit with the bus like in the film -RSB- . ''
When this was played on Top 40 radio , the line , `` it must be the weed , it must be the E '' was edited .
Instead of the two drug names , the listener would hear garbled sound effects .
The song debuted on Chicago 's B96 radio on the 16th June 2009 .
Auto-Tune was used to provide a slight electronic manipulation to Carey 's voice .
The singer previously utilized the device on her 2008 T-Pain duet `` Migrate . ''
Melody Thorntion of the Pussycat Dolls ' wrote on her Twitter on hearing this song : `` Btw I love mariahs new song !
Tell them liars what 's up .
Delusional is a good word to describe some of these lames . ''
The music video was helmed by Rush Hour director Brett Ratner .
Some scenes were shot at the Plaza Hotel in New York and Carey played both the stalked celebrity and her stalker .
In the latter part she dresses as a man in a way that sort of resembles Eminem .
The video 's director , Brett Ratner , who has worked with Carey on many of her promos including `` Touch My Body , `` originally wanted the stalker character to be played by Ellen DeGeneres .
However , he denied that the clip is a poke at Eminem .
He told MTV News : `` It 's not about Eminem - we were n't like , ` Let 's find an Eminem look-alike . '
We were n't talking to any Eminem -LSB- look-alikes -RSB- .
I guess it 's a good rumor , but I do n't think it 's true .
I do n't really know .
I never asked her , but then when I recommended Ellen , that 's where she got the idea .
`` Ratner added that the look Carey 's stalker character sports in the video was devised simply as a way to hide Mariah 's lady assets .
He explained : `` Mariah never talked to me about that .
You know , Mariah ... she 's like the most feminine girl you can imagine , so the more I covered up the less work I had to do on the transitions of changing back and forth .
I kind of told the wardrobe guy , ` Let 's bulk her up with layers and stuff ' - first of all , to hide her breasts , because they 're prominent , and to kind of make her more boyish .
A b-boy made sense . ''
This song won the Worst Track of the Year award at the Virgin Media Music Awards 2010 .
