This song is about cheating on your girlfriend .
A guy goes to a club and is seduced by a girl while his girlfriend is out of town .
-LRB- thanks , Lynne - Sydney , Australia -RRB- Ludacris did the rap .
It 's one of many successful collaborations for the Atlanta rapper .
This was used in the movie Hitch when Will Smith tries to teach Kevin James how to dance .
This hit # 1 in the US before the album was even released .
Confessions sold over a million copies the first week it was released , and at one point 3 singles from the album were in the top 10 .
Usher became only the third artist , after The Beatles and Bee Gees , to do this .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- This was produced by Lil Jon , who also added vocals .
Most of his productions , including this one , feature a Crunk sound with lots of heavy beats .
Usher 's next single , `` Burn , '' replaced this at # 1 in the US .
It was the first time a song with a 4 letter title replaced another at # 1 .
Sean Garrett , who is a songwriter and producer who has had a hand in many hit songs , including Chris Brown 's `` Run It , '' Destiny 's Child 's `` Soldier '' and Ciara 's `` Goodies , '' helped write the lyrics and turning the song into a story .
Garrett works for L.A. Reid 's publishing company , which is how he ended up on this .
Says Garrett : `` I knew that Usher was almost finished with his album .
L.A. Reid called me and said , ` We need a first single . '
We spoke a little bit about it , and I went to the studio .
Since all the other songs on the album were very hot and R&B - ish , I wanted to give him something out-of-the-box that was more creative and dynamic .
So we went in and cut a demo and took it to L.A. , and we sat and talked about it for quite a while .
He thought it was very interesting , but he asked me a lot of questions in reference to how it worked for Usher and said he wanted a change or two .
So I went in , and the rest is history - and the beginning of this beautiful run . ''
This song almost did n't make the Confessions album .
Usher explained to MTV News that once he and Lil Jon `` finished the record , we did a little research on the record only to find out that ` Freek-A-Leek ' by Petey Pablo had the same beat .
At times I wonder if it would have made a difference if the beat was never changed .
Nobody knew it was going to be that huge of a record . ''
