This song features American R&B vocal group , Boyz II Men , who were one of the most successful acts of the 1990s .
Nathan Morris of the Boyz told Billboard magazine that this track on Justin 's Christmas album presented the perfect opportunity for the group to collaborate with the teen star .
`` We always were thinking about trying to do something together , but we wanted to do something different , where it 's not just us on his album , '' he said .
`` We are two different genres and age groups , so you got ta do something that makes sense , and the Christmas album just made sense . ''
Justin tweeted the day after Boyz II Men recorded their part : `` 2day i woke up and realized that the group that made me want to sing @BoyzIIMen are now on the christmas album singing with me .
#DREAMBIG .
i used 2 listen to their music and practice the runs .
that is how i learned how to sing .
now im in the studio with them making music 2gether .
im telling you ... never say never ... never stop dreaming ... never give up , '' he continued . ''
#DREAMBIG .
@BoyzIIMen Im honored and blessed .
thank u. '' There is also an acapella version of this song on the deluxe edition of Under the Mistletoe .
The collaboration came together after Boyz II Men ran into Justin and his manager in 2010 in a Los Angeles hotel .
`` We met him in the hotel , at the Le Montrose , in L.A. and the dude , he had a cast on at the time , '' Morris remembered to MTV News .
`` And he stepped up and said , ` Oh my God !
Boyz II Men , you 're my favorite group ! '
And we 're like , ` Oh , OK , ' and at the time , we did n't know who he was .
He was a new dude , and the next thing you know , he 's huge .
And I 'm like , ` That 's the same guy ! ' ''
Boyz II Men previously linked up with Justin in his 2011 3-D movie Never Say Never .
When the film was released , the teen star cited the group as one of his favorite musical influences .
`` My fans inspire me , as well as my mom inspires me and my dad and God inspires me , '' he said .
`` I 've looked up to a lot of musicians , like Michael Jackson and Boyz II Men .
I met Boyz II Men .
I did n't get to meet Michael Jackson . ''
Justin reached puberty during the recording of Under the Mistletoe , giving his voice a deeper sound than before , thus making this collaboration with Boyz II Men very apt !
