In October 2006 Bo Bice underwent emergency surgery for an intestinal problem that doctors said he may have had since he was born .
The surgery was , according to his doctors , neither easy nor routine , but it was successful .
It was while he was home recuperating from this surgery that Bice found himself one day writing this song with his good friend and frequent co-writer Chris Tompkins .
`` He was one of the first people that I reached out to to write after my surgery , '' recalls Bice .
`` And I had just worked on the opening lick for that song .
I remember writing it in the back lounge of a bus .
And he came in and had the rhythm guitar part , started playing it , and started singing .
He wrote the first line , ` I 'm gon na give leavin ' a brand new meanin ' , show you how it feels to be alone . '
And from that it 's kind of a song that wrote itself , so it 's just two friends kind of hanging out . ''
`` I 've experienced everything I wrote about in the song , '' Bice says .
`` But we were telling somebody else 's story .
And now looking back at the finished composition , I can see my story in it .
But while we were writing it , it was more like two songwriters writing a song , and we got on a good hook , a good story .
It 's like two writers sitting down and trying to write something , a TV show or anything else .
You start with ` Hello ' and you end with ` Goodbye , ' but what really matters is what 's in between . ''
SugarMoney , the name of Bice 's independent label , was originally the name of his back-up band pre-American Idol .
`` Chris Tompkins and I played in this little band in this old house in Muscle Shoals with Shonna Tucker and Jason Isbell from the Drive-by Truckers , and Garry Nichols . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Bo Bice . -RRB-
Co-writer Chris Tompkins has written songs for many recording artists , including Carrie Underwood 's `` Before He Cheats , '' Jimmy Buffett 's `` Havana Breeze , '' and `` That 's How They Do It In Dixie '' for Hank Williams Jr. .
