The opening track of Wilco 's eighth studio album The Whole Love is a two part rock freak-out comprising an electro free-form jam with clattering drums , followed by a rapidly building charge featuring Nels Cline 's fuzzed-out guitar .
Tweedy told Spin magazine the inspiration for the seven minute sprawler came from Neil Young .
`` It 's a sort of atmospheric song you might hear on Tonight 's The Night '' he said .
`` I do n't know what happened to that song , to be honest .
It just sort of morphed over time into something that 's a lot more interesting to us now . ''
The song started with a demo that Tweedy played to the rest of the band on an acoustic guitar and they learned the chords , which remained virtually the same on the final recorded version .
However , according to Tweedy , `` the band has an openness to accidents , or not being too precious about songs , '' and are willing to let them evolve in a different direction than was originally envisaged .
Asked by Salon to give an example of `` a typical happy accident , '' he replied : `` Well , at some point Glenn -LRB- Kotche -RRB- and Mike -LRB- Jorgensen -RRB- started playing this vaguely Germanic drumbeat .
I do n't know , I had this impulse to hear what the lyrics and the melody would sound like over it .
I did n't even sing it ; we just moved it in the computer , flipped it around and just said ` Hey , let 's see if this works . '
It fit really well right off the bat without a whole lot of editing or manipulating .
That 's when everybody could see , ` Well , this could be something completely different .
Let 's do this . '
At one point we were still going to work on the other version and call it ` All of Almost , ' but this song became such a focal point for us that I think we forgot about finishing the other version . ''
Critics have compared this multi-part track to previous Wilco epics such as Wilco : The Album 's `` Blue Black Nova . ''
Speaking to Salon , Jeff Tweedy explained how Wilco build such a soundscape .
Said the frontman : '' ` Art of Almost ' started as a completely different song , and through a hodgepodge of approaches and accidents , we ended up with this collage that we spent months and months and months refocusing our eyes on , adding parts and taking parts away .
A few things happened pretty early on -- like the drumbeat and the bass line , the pulse of the song -- and that became the core .
After that , we could all envision where it could head and where it was going -- it was just patiently , collectively , coming in weeks apart and saying , ` We 're going to nail this outro now ' or ` Let 's make sure the sound cloud that the vocal emerges from is rich enough ' or ` The third verse sounds much too similar to the first verse .
Let 's make it a totally different texture . '
It 's very rewarding to work that way and make a real studio-sculpture-type collaboration . ''
