Daryl Hall wrote this for his collaborator/girlfriend Sara Allen .
Her sister , Janna Allen , co-wrote their hit `` Kiss On My List . ''
Janna died of leukemia in 1993 .
-LRB- thanks , Charles - Charlotte , NC -RRB- The album 's cover photo by Mick Jagger 's makeup designer Pierre LaRoche , a glitzy shot of Hall and Oates in heavy makeup captured the eye .
John Oates explained in Nick Tosches ' biography Dangerous Dances , `` We decided that if we were going to put our faces on an album cover for the first time we wanted to do it in a big way .
Pierre said , in that French accent of his , ' I will immortalize you ! '
And he just did .
To this day it 's the only album cover that people ask us about .
`` David Bowie said that LaRoche was the best makeup artist he ever worked with .
In 2009 country singer Jimmy Wayne recorded an updated version of this song with Hall and Oates .
Wayne got his first record deal because of this tune after then-Dreamworks executive Scott Borchetta heard him sing it and it has been part of his concert repertoire ever since .
Wayne said in publicity materials : `` Over 13 years ago , I picked a Hall & Oates Greatest Hits CD out of a bargain box that sat outside the department store in the old Gaston Mall in Gastonia , North Carolina .
I listened to the CD on my way home and I heard ` Sara Smile ' for the first time .
I began singing this song long before I knew how to play it on guitar and I just felt like it was as if the song was written for me .
`` The Jimmy Wayne updated version was Hall and Oates debut on the Hot Country Songs chart .
Tommy Mottola , who would later become chairman of Sony Music and marry Mariah Carey , was Hall & Oates manager at the time .
He had some experience as a musician -LRB- recording as `` T.D. Valentine '' -RRB- , and is credited for playing keyboards on the Daryl Hall And John Oates album .
They never got married , but Daryl and Sara were together for about 28 years before they broke up in 2001 .
In Entertainment Weekly October 16 , 2009 , Hall listed this as one of their favorite songs , and explained : `` That was a postcard to Sara Allen , who was my partner for many , many years , a ` having a great time , wish you were here ' kind of thing .
I can not tell you how many girls have told me they were named for it ! ''
According to Barry Rudolph , who was an engineer on the session , Hall sang his vocal live with the band .
The only edit they made was to punch in over the word `` Sara '' in the beginning of the second chorus .
With the backing vocals , Hall was trying to get them to sound like the Doo-Wop group The Dells .
This song was performed on the episode `` Tom , Sarah and Usher '' of the Adult Swim show The Boondocks .
In the episode , Tom DuBois started to sing the song to his wife , when Usher comes in and sings the song a lot better .
-LRB- thanks , Logan - Troy , MT -RRB- Chris Bond produced this track with Hall & Oates .
According to Scott Edwards , who played bass on this song , much of its success is attributable to Bond .
Says Edwards : `` Chris Bond was the real impetus behind ` Sara Smile , ' ` Rich Girl , ' ` She 's Gone ' for Hall & Oates .
But he was never given the accolades he deserved .
He 's the one in my mind that was really responsible for their success .
They may have written the lyrics and the chords and all that , but Chris was the one who figured out the production and the projection of it .
He was a really good arranger and he wrote out note for note .
He knew exactly how long he wanted you to let a note ring , how to hit it , how to release it .
He was a good guitar player , but he played all the instruments .
So he was one person who really could write out everything and it would be great . ''
-LRB- Here 's our full Scott Edwards interview . -RRB-
