Tangled long-term relationships is the topic of the opening track of Feist 's Metals album .
The Canadian singer-songwriter sings about how , `` a good man and a good woman bring out the worst in the other and also that she and her lover , `` had the same feelings at opposite times . ''
The male voice on the track is a guy called Bry Webb who is the singer for a Canadian Indie Rock band called The Constantines .
Feist commented to Q magazine , `` He has a voice like he 's drunk a pint of sand . ''
The song 's music video was shot in Mexico by Martin De Thurah -LRB- James Blake , Glasvegas -RRB- .
It is a series of open-ended vignettes including a somewhat despondent Feist walking through the streets .
She explained the clip 's meaning in a post on her website , saying : `` This video captures glimpses of something human , we get a peek inside something real between people -- could be loss , longing and love .
A lot of things which is about being a human being ... It is told in a way where it opens up more aspects than it concludes.You could think about the video like a song or a poem , and different people will connect to different things -- and those connections might be different from time to time when they watch it . ''
Feist was in a long-term relationship with Kevin Drew from Broken Social Scene when she recorded the album , but rather than being about their partnership , the song appears to have been inspired by observing what happens to other couples she was friends with .
The singer explained to The Observer how she noticed that after a few years together , its often the case that they are unable to see each other clearly anymore .
The Metals title was partially inspired by the book 1491 : New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus , which describes how the Aztec Indians decorated their homes and goods in gold whilst the Spanish Conquistadors ' forged intricate weapons out of precious metals .
`` It was all dazzle , '' Feist explained to Spin magazine . ''
` Mettle ' was also a frontrunner for the title .
I told a couple of people but they did n't know what that word meant , so I kept having to define it , not to mention spell it . ''
