This is the third single from We Are Young Money , the first collaboration studio album from Young Money Entertainment .
The song features Lil Wayne , Nicki Minaj , and Tyga .
The video was filmed in front of a green screen , meaning the artists had to use their imaginations , as the images were n't created until post-production .
Rousseau said : `` Filming with them on the green screen and capturing their energy was great because they understood what we were trying to do .
Green screen is hard sometimes because it takes a lot of imagination .
We 'll sometimes print out storyboards , which will have images close to what the screen will end up looking like to walk the artists through the idea .
Nicki was great - I really enjoyed working with her .
Tyga was great too .
When artists are down to push the boundaries , that 's awesome.On ` Roger That , ' Nicki Minaj 's delivery is almost comic book-like , and then Tyga and Wayne come in like they 're rapping about fiction so the visual needed something out of the ordinary .
The green screen was great because when you shoot on location , you 're limited to what you see - but with green screen it 's whatever you imagine , any scenario . ''
The song 's music video , which pays homage to the graphic novel and movie Sin City , was released on March 1 , 2010 .
Co-director David Rousseau told MTV News about it : `` Jeff Panzer , the executive producer for all of the Cash Money videos , sent me the ` Roger That ' track to sit with for a couple hours - and it really was a couple of hours because I had to get an idea back to him pretty quickly .
We started texting back and forth and the idea to use ` Sin City ' popped into my head and I came up with the concept .
I thought of Sin City because it was so groundbreaking and I knew it 'd be a great match , something different and edgy that people would remember .
The idea was born in an hour .
`` Rousseau then called on co-director Adam Rush and the pair began to develop the idea : `` We discussed the concepts through style frames , which are mock-up images that show what the background would look like with Wayne , Nicki -LSB- Minaj -RSB- and Tyga , '' Rush explained .
`` When the artists came to set , they had already chosen their outfits and things , then we shot it all that day in Miami and the footage of them in front of the green screen was flown to Los Angeles where editors put together a rough cut of all the images .
Then , after the rough cut was approved by the label , Universal , the film was shipped off to me so I could do the film 's introductions , transitions , settings and background like the radar behind Tyga . ''
