This features Chicago rapper Yung Berg , who had a # 18 hit in the Hot 100 with `` Sexy Lady '' in 2007 .
Ray J told Billboard magazine : `` I just went back into studio and wrote about my life and how I feel at this point .
I wanted to do a feel-good springtime/summer jam that would have everybody up .
I 'd also worked with Yung Berg before and knew his ` Sexy Lady ' single did well .
I thought he would enhance the magic and help us connect again with this sexy movement . ''
djbooth.net asked Yung Berg whether when he recorded this with Ray J , they thought it would become the smash hit that it did .
The Chicago rapper replied : `` I did n't .
Ray did though , honestly ; from the gate , Ray said , ` Yeah , this is a number one record .
This record is goin ' number one ; we 're gon na win a Grammy for this s -- t. '' He was sayin ' that s -- t last year , and I was like , ` Yeah , whatever , dawg , I 'm gon na do it . '
But it was n't like I did n't think it was a huge record ; I think I was just frustrated in my project , and what was goin ' on with me , and the limbo that I was in , so I could n't really see the big picture at that time , with the record . ''
The video was directed by R. Malcolm Jones -LRB- Lil ' Mama , DJ Khaled , Clipse -RRB- .
Yung Berg was arrested and taken into custody by Miami Beach Police , after officers observed him smoking marijuana on the video set .
The rapper was charged with a misdemeanor and released approximately 6 hours later .
Ray J told MTV News : `` We ran into some police problems with the homie Yung Berg on the set .
I had to call Shaq -LSB- label boss , Miami reserve police officer and basketball star Shaquille O'Neal -RSB- and -LSB- get him to -RSB- pull a little Miami favor for us , 'cause we shot the video in Miami .
It took Berg a couple of hours to get out , but when we got the rest of the job done , -LSB- there were a -RSB- lot of women , partying , sexy people around .
We wanted to showcase that .
We missed Berg for a couple of hours , but it was fun . ''
The All I Feel album topped the Billboard R&B / Hip-Hop Album chart .
This meant that Ray J became the second member of the Norwood family to have a # 1 title on that listing , as his sister Brandy had a # 1 album on the R&B chart in 2002 with Full Moon .
However the Norwoods need a third sibling to record the same achievement in order to equal the Jackson family for whom Michael , Janet and Jermaine Jackson have all reached the summit of the R&B album chart .
