`` Rag and bone man '' is a British term for a guy who goes door to door collecting junk .
Jack White got the idea from his wife , British model Karen Elson , who told him that as a kid she wanted to go off with the rag and bone men .
There are drawings on goldfish on the record sleeve because the rag and bone men used to bring the fish with them for the kids , who would scrounge around for junk in exchange for them .
In an interview with Uncut magazine , Jack White was asked about the influence of his wife on his songwriting .
The White Stripes front man replied that his wife is `` completely inspiring '' to him .
He said : `` She 's always throwing this stuff out , half the time to make me laugh , like this rag and bone thing - when she was a little girl she wanted to run away with the rag and bone men , because she thought they were going to an exotic land .
She tells me these things , pretty soon you 're playing a riff and yelling `` Rag and bone ! ''
In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , White said : `` I think songwriters are all junk collectors at heart : We take other people 's problems and try to make something beautiful out of them . ''
Jack and Meg White both contribute vocals on this song .
In the same interview Jack White was asked how the Icky Thump album came to be .
He replied : `` The Raconteurs tour was ending , and I called Meg up and said , ` I 've got some time coming up here in December and January - maybe we should get together , ' I had some things cooking , and we had a couple of songs which we did n't get to put on Satan , so she moved to Nashville for a couple of months , and we started hammering it out .
You just start doing it .
This is the first album where I had a chalkboard on the wall , to write down the names of things .
We recorded in January , but in December , that chalkboard was empty .
We had a couple of riffs , but not one finished song .
A lot was written in the studio , and this happens a lot with us - only for the first album did we actually have songs written . ''
