This song describes an air battle from the viewpoint of a flying ace .
The lyrics and fast-paced style have made the song commonly associated with war , and it appeared in the 1986 film Incident at Channel Q , about a war between headbangers and conservative `` straight people '' .
Partially inspired by the 1976 war film of the same name starring Malcolm McDowell and Christopher Plummer .
On the back of the album Somewhere in Time , there is an Aces High Bar .
Iron Maiden had already performed two songs about a historical war from the perspective of those being attacked .
One was `` Invaders , '' which was set during a Viking sea battle .
The other was `` Trooper , '' set during the Crimean War in which the British fought the Russians -LRB- see the famous Alfred Lord Tennyson poem The Charge of the Light Brigade -RRB- .
After this , Maiden wrote and performed another song about flying aces in combat , `` Tailgunner . ''
`` Run to the Hills '' was also about a historical war/invasion , but was told from the perspective of both the invaders and the invaded .
The first line is `` There goes the siren that warns of the air raid . ''
Lead singer Bruce Dickinson had earned the nickname `` The Air Raid Siren '' for his powerful , never-tiring vocals .
He is also a licensed pilot , and since leaving the band in 1993 , has flown many commercial flights .
The cover for the single was a close-up of Eddie -LRB- Iron Maiden 's mascot -RRB- in a WWII jet .
The back of the case showed the jet spiraling the ground , up in flames , smoke spewing from it .
The B-side was `` King of Twilight . ''
On the cover art , to the left below the cockpit there is a unique symbol scribbled in white .
This is cover art designer Derek Rigg 's `` logo , '' which depicts his initials - a mirrored D and an R on the right hand side .
This was covered by Children of Bodon for the album A Tribute to the Beast and Arch Enemy for the album Made In Tribute - A Tribute to The Best Band In A Whole Goddamn World ! .
-LRB- thanks , Brett - Edmonton , Canada , for all above -RRB-
