Capital Cities is an Electro-Rock duo from Los Angeles , California comprising Ryan Merchant and Sebu Simonian .
This is a song from their debut album , In a Tidal Wave Of Mystery .
The song peaked at # 1 on the German singles chart after featuring in a Vodafone commercial .
Regarding the track 's meaning , Merchant noted to Billboard magazine : `` The song is an anti-doomsday song in some ways - expressing the idea that every generation thinks that the end of the world is right around the corner , but it never comes to pass , '' The clip walked away with the Best Visual Effects award at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards .
Directed by Grady Hall , the video was shot at the newly renovated Los Angeles Theater , and features dance routines that span the decades .
The effects were done at a creative studio called Mirada , which was founded by the filmmaker Guillermo del Toro .
There are more than 40 dance sequences in the clip , each representing a different style or era .
The song is Capital Cities ' take on `` Breathe , '' the second track on Pink Floyd 's Dark Side Of The Moon album .
`` We definitely gave it a different twist , '' Simonian told Radio.com .
`` It sounds a little hip-hop-ish , a little trip hop-ish and we decided to incorporate the Tupac Shakur verse sample to twist it up , a verse that we found online somehow fit perfectly with the theme . ''
The song was actually created back in 2011 , before Merchant and Simonian were known as Capital Cities , when the Los Angeles pair were earning their corn composing music for advertising campaigns .
`` It started as a little idea we came up with - it was n't a fully fleshed-out song , per se , '' Merchant told Billboard magazine .
`` We noticed that , when we showed it to people , there was this unanimous feeling that there was something special about this music , and we started to develop it .
It took 10 different versions before we finally came to what you hear on the radio now , where we decided to add a trumpet for the main bridge part , which I think was one of our best decisions on the song .
And we brought out this vintage keyboard that provides the foundation for the song .
So the song really took a long time to get right , because we knew it was such an important song for us . ''
The song 's Grady Hall-directed music video is a rapid tour of the history of dance through the decades .
`` When we started working on and developing ideas for the music video , we felt like we were onto something special , '' Simonian told Billboard magazine .
`` The day of the shoot was at the Los Angeles Theatre , which was this historic , beautiful theater in L.A. , and we brought 60-70 dancers that we discovered on Craigslist - -LSB- which is -RSB- how we met .
So all these dancers came in , and some semi-professional , some were amateurs , some were pro -- it was this really cool cultural clash happening during the video shoot , so we felt like there was something there .
`` The band had some help from choreographer Mandy Moore , who is best known for her work on So You Think You Can Dance as well as delivering the moves on Silver Linings Playbook .
