This is the first single from El Camino , the seventh studio album by American Blues-Rock duo , The Black Keys .
The song was one of the first that was recorded for the set and was released on October 26 , 2011 .
The album was co-produced by Danger Mouse , who previously helmed the duo 's 2008 album Attack & Release and 2010 single `` Tighten Up '' .
Drummer/co-producer Patrick Carney told MTV News : `` He 's a really good friend of ours , and he 's super talented .
It 's always ... Interesting .
It 's comfortable , but at the same time difficult , because he does push us to do things we normally would n't do .
I hope it sounds different enough that people see that we 're still evolving . ''
Despite being a spur-of-the-moment thing , Tuggle nailed his routine in a single take .
He explained to MTV News .
`` My acting teacher Mark McPherson , he has us do this thing before we start class called ` Song and Dance , ' where he 'll have us sing one of our favorite songs , and then while we 're singing it , he 'll have us do a crazy dance , or a sexy dance , and I guess it spawned from that . ''
Auerbach told Q magazine how the duo wrote the song : `` It started with that riff and we just built it from the ground up and the vocals came at the end .
We wrote this record from scratch in the studio , which is n't the norm for us .
We were listening to old rock 'n' roll records , from the '50s .
'60s , '70s , '80s .
Music that was very simple and fun - drums , bass , guitars , organ and not a lot of bells and whistles on top . ''
The Black Keys duo , in tandem with El Camino producer Danger Mouse , sued Home Depot Inc. regarding this song .
They claimed the home improvement retailer used music that sounded a bit too much like part of `` Lonely Boy '' in a commercial for their Ryobi power tools .
El Camino was recorded in vocalist/guitarist Dan Auerbach 's Easy Eye Studio in Nashville , Tennessee .
Auerbach told Spin magazine : `` Almost every song on the record has a foundation of live drums and guitar together in the room .
It 's guitar bleeding into the drum mics .
It 's pretty raw . ''
The music video features one Derrick T. Tuggle dancing to the song in the lobby of a motel .
It 's in the same tradition of other seemingly improvised dancing clips as David Bowie and Mick Jagger 's `` Dancing In The Street '' and Fatboy Slim 's `` Praise You .
`` The actor/musician/part-time security guard told MTV News his star-making turn almost did n't happen at all .
`` I was cast as an extra , and there were maybe six or seven other people who were supposedly going to be in the video .
I was the first one to perform in the video .
It was a motel shot where the guys from the Black Keys come and give me the keys to their motel room , '' he said .
`` The director just sort of noticed me dancing and asked me , ` Can you perform ? '
I said , ' I can dance , anybody can dance , ' so I took some moves from everybody : John Travolta from Saturday Night Fever and Pulp Fiction , the Carlton Banks dance from The Fresh Prince and a little bit of Michael Jackson , so it was a smorgasbord of everybody in there . ''
Drummer Patrick Carney told MTV News the band 's original plans for the video did n't involve Tuggle at all .
`` There was supposed to be -LSB- a proper video for the song -RSB- , but there is not .
We shot a whole video here in Los Angeles about two months ago , but we did n't like it , so we scrapped the whole thing , '' he explained , `` Except for the footage of Derrick Tuggle dancing , which was a complete accident .
... He had an hour to listen to the song , and he memorized all the lyrics and he came up with the dance , and he basically did that on his own .
And if we did n't have that footage , we would not have a video for the song . ''
The album cover features The Black Keys ' old Plymouth Voyager van rather than an actual El Camino .
Auerbach explained why to Q : `` Cos El Camino means the road or the path and that was our van that we started touring in 10 years ago .
It 's been a long road we 've been on and that was the vehicle that got us started . ''
The Black Keys were joined by Dr. John and the Preservation Hall Jazz Band when they played this song in 2013 at the Grammy Awards .
The song won for Best Rock Performance and Best Rock Song at the ceremony , while El Camino won for Best Rock Album.Dr .
John , who was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2011 , released an album in 2012 called Locked Down , which was produced by Dan Auerbach .
The Dr. told us : `` Dan 's a very cool guy .
I had n't done a regular track in so many years , but he gave me a chance to take some lyric-als and figure out ways to make it work with a track in a different way than I usually do . ''
