Guitarist Derek Miller told NME about this song with the subject matter of moving on .
`` It 's celebrating coming out of a situation that I did n't think I would be ever able to come out of , '' he explained .
`` I had been in the darkest , nastiest situation .
I came to terms with my father 's death finally , that did n't happen until February -LRB- 2013 -RRB- .
My mom has been in remission for two years now so she 's in a great place .
I 'm in the best place of my life .
I 'm not going to boo-hoo about it now , but that shattered me for years .
When you 're in it , you just ca n't see out of it .
But when I cam out of it , I was like ` Oh my god . ' ''
The song 's music video ends with the message `` Be good to each other . ''
Krauss explained to Stereogum : `` We thought it would be great to end something that had an aggressive or violent imagery with something kind of humorous and sweet .
You know , I was a teacher before I was in Sleigh Bells so being positive and having that kind of energy has always been a part of Sleigh Bells .
We 're also constantly using the phrase , ` Work hard .
Be nice . '
It was the phrase I constantly used as my mantra for my kids when I was teaching . ''
Vocalist Alexis Krauss told NME about the recording of this dog-barking , finger-snapping two chord noise-pop banger : `` I had my dog in the studio , and they were setting up to do guitars , and I was like `` OK this will be a good time .
I 'll take my dog out to go pee and I 'll be back up by the time they start tracking ' and this was literally five minutes , and in one take , it was just like the scrappiest , gnarliest sound .
You know ?
There was no tweaking , there was no fu -- ing around with it .
We knew it was good and we just left it . ''
Q magazine asked Derek Miller the meaning of the lyrics `` You are my bitter rival , but I need you for survival . ''
He replied : `` I 'd rather leave that lyric open .
It could be anything , it could be a war with yourself , an enemy , a girlfriend or boyfriend -- it 's about being forced to step your game up .
That 's definitely a big theme .
I 've got a lot of demons , and making records is one way to deal with them . ''
