Drummer Matt Greiner told Antiquiet that this was the most challenging track to write drums to on Rescue & Restore .
`` The song is relentless !
, '' he said .
`` The song opens up with this big introduction that pulls you in and keeps you on your toes .
Through a series of twists and turns , the linear writing leads you to a guitar riff that I compliment with the bells on my drum-set , which I use sparingly on our records .
The very next part has the fastest blast beat I 've ever played on any ABR record .
It took me at least two hours to get the drums right for just that ten-second part .
I am happy we chose to keep it as fast as we did though because it sets the song up well for the ` whiny ' breakdown that follows . ''
`` All in all , ` Count It All As Lost ' is one of my favorite songs on the record , '' he continued .
`` The song is very linear in fashion and takes you through a windy road of sounds and styles before arriving at the end where you are somehow still banging your head and smiling at the same time ! ''
August Burns Red Guitarist JB Brubaker commented to The Alternative Press on the difficulties of playing this song : `` When it comes to technical musicianship , this is about as technical as we get , '' he said .
`` This song is freaking hard to play and is all over the place musically .
Like ` Treatment , ' ` Count It All As Lost ' is structured in an extremely linear fashion and is a roller coaster from start to finish .
There 's a neat little Latin-esque clean section thrown in , and the song ends with the hardest guitar lick on the album . ''
Greiner told Antiquiet that writing lyrics for the song was an extensive process .
`` I first put pen to paper for this song in early 2012 on a tour in Europe , '' he explained .
`` I was having a hard time dealing with the high standard I set for myself .
I found that whenever I lived up to my own moral standards , I became self-righteous and inflated .
On the contrary , whenever I failed to meet my high standards of morality , I felt like throwing myself off of a bridge ! ''
`` The Bible has a very helpful depiction of this ` up and down ' relationship many of us have with being better or worse than our own expectations , '' Greiner continued .
`` Paul , the New Testament writer , addresses this issue in Philippians 3:8 where he says , ' I consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord , for whose sake I have lost all things .
I consider them garbage , that I may gain Christ . '
He writes this amazing truth after listing all of his exceptional moral accomplishments , showing us that even the very best we can do is still crumbs compared to the worth and value in knowing Jesus . ''
