This track opener is introduced with the phrase , `` Let 's fall apart together now , '' before vocalist Ville Valo croons , `` We 're zipping Cupid in a body bag well worn , next to the mausoleum he was born in . ''
Kerrang !
magazine January 2 , 2010 asked Valo how humorous he considers Screamworks to be .
The HIM frontman replied : `` There is humor in there , as always .
The first line of the album is ` We 're zipping Cupid in a body bag well worn , next to the mausoleum he was born in . '
Obviously you can take that seriously but I 'm not sure whether you should .
It 's about the end of a relationship and it being time to start something new .
It 's about reaching the end of something , burying the hatchet , and realising that 's a positive thing .
It 's cathartic to let things go , especially when you remember the bloody , f -- ing carnage they were . ''
Valo told the story behind this song to Artist Direct : `` That 's one of the first songs that I started working on for the album .
It 's also one of the songs that did n't change a gazillion times .
I used to be a big Charles Bukowski fan .
I was such a big Bukowski fan that I became a drunkard myself .
I was in a pretty bad place .
Obviously , the old Latin phrase ` In vino verities ' means , ` In wine there is the truth . '
When I quit drinking , I was laughing about the phrase because ` Vino , ' as in ` wine , ' sounds pretty close to ` Venus . '
I was thinking of the phrase , ` In love there is the truth . '
For me , the point is you can say something pretty mundane , direct and straightforward but when you put it into Latin , you can say nearly everything and it always feels so f -- ing highbrow -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
I was laughing at myself because all of sudden it sounded so pretentious and pompous in an entertaining way .
I asked the question , ` Should we keep the Latin part in the song or is too techie ? '
It just happened .
You write a song , you play it on an acoustic guitar , bring it to the rehearsal space , jam it with the guys and here we are with the album .
There are so many tiny pieces of the puzzle and so many things that happen along the way .
Given all that , it 'd be possible to write a book about each and every song .
There are always so many changes and little things going on that even I ca n't remember all of the stuff that caused the song to be exactly what it is now . ''
