Paul McCartney asked Radiohead 's Thom Yorke to collaborate on this song but Yorke turned the ex-Beatle down .
Yorke explained why to the Observer Music Monthly December 2007 : `` Uhh , 'cause I ca n't play piano .
Not like that .
I had to explain to him that , I listened to the tune - ` Mr. Bellamy ' - and I really liked the song , but the piano playing involved two hands doing things separately .
I do n't have that skill available .
I said to him , ' I strum piano , that 's it . ' ''
Paul McCartney added in the Mail on Sunday May 12 , 2008 on why he titled the subject of this song Mr Bellamy : `` I had a little piano riff that 's behind the Mr Bellamy verse .
I wanted some lyrics that would poke in and out of the riff , so I began with , ` I 'm not coming down , no matter what you say , I like it up here . '
Sometimes I do n't actually know where I 'm going , so then I look at just what that verse is , and in this case I got a picture of a guy sitting on top of a skyscraper and all the people in the street - the rescue team , the psychiatrist , the man with the megaphone shouting : ` Do n't jump ' and the people shouting : ` Jump . '
So I fished around for a name and came up with Bellamy , which sounded like someone who might want to jump .
And I just followed the story through .
The end is like a pull back with a camera - there he is , little Bellamy sitting on the ledge , enjoying it up in the clouds .
And that 's how we recorded it , as a sort of film . ''
The song 's title ` Mister Bellamy ' is an anagram of `` Mills betray me . ''
Such lines as `` No-one to tell me what to do , no-one to hold my hand '' have led fans to speculate as to whether lyrics in the song refer to Macca 's ex-wife Heather Mills .
Speaking on a website video in 2007 , McCartney said : `` Who is Mister Bellamy ?
Well , I never know who these people are .
Who are Chuck and Dave from ` When I 'm 64 ' ?
Who is Eleanor Rigby ?
Who are Desmond and Molly from ` Ob-La-Di , Ob-La-Da ' ?
I do n't know , I just make them up .
I like giving characters names and just making them up and trying to make them fit . ''
