This is the title track from Bush 's sixth studio album .
The song is a blend of Celtic and Middle eastern sounds .
Kate originally had lyrics from the book Ulysses by James Joyce , but could not get permission to use them .
The original lyrics were the soliloquy at the end of the book by the character Molly Bloom .
Bush told the NME : `` Because I could n't get permission to use a piece of Joyce it gradually turned into the songs about Molly Bloom the character stepping out of the book , into the real world and the impressions of sensuality .
Rather than being in this two dimensional world , she 's free , let loose to touch things , feel the ground under her feet , the sunsets , just how incredibly sensual a world it is.I originally heard the piece read by Siobhan McKenna years ago and I thought ` My God !
This is extraordinary , what a piece of writing ! '
it 's a very unusual train of thought , very attractive .
First I got the ` mmh yes ' and that made me think of Molly Bloom 's speech , and we had this piece of music in the studio already so it came together really quickly .
Then , because I could n't get permission to use Joyce , it took another year changing it to what it is now .
Typical innit ! ''
Irish folk musician Davey Spillane plays a Macedonian air on his uillean pipes in the middle this song .
Bush explained why to the NME : `` It was one of those , ` Oh what the hell ' things .
That seems to have been the way with a lot of this album .
Sort of ` Oh god , tut , will it work , ooh , er ... ' Then when I 've eventually just gone for it seems to have worked . ''
This is about someone who steps out from their 2D black and white world , as a character in a book , into the real world .
The character 's immediate impressions are that of the sensuality of this world : the fact that you can touch things , the color of the trees , the feel of grass on your feet , etc. .
The bells at the beginning of the song were part of the rewrite trying to capture the same sensual feel of the original bit from Ulysses .
The bells also tie in with the fact that the character Molly Bloom had just received a marriage proposal .
Bush explained to the NME : `` I 've got a thing about the sound of bells , it 's one of those fantastic sound , sound of celebration .
They 're used to mark points in life -- births , weddings , deaths -- but they give this tremendous feeling of celebration.In the original speech she 's talking of the time when he proposed to her , and I just had the image of bells , this image of them sitting on the hillside with the sound of bells in the distance .
In hindsight , I also think it 's a lovely way to start an album , a feeling of celebration that puts me on a hillside somewhere on a sunny afternoon and it 's like mmh ... Sounds of celebration get fewer and fewer , we have n't many left , and yet people complain of the sound of bells in cities . ''
-LRB- thanks , Lee - Ottawa , Canada , for all above -RRB- After eventually obtaining permission to use the soliloquy at the end of the Ulysses , Bush re-recorded the song with the words of Molly Bloom for her 2011 album Director 's Cut .
She re-titled the new version , `` Flower of the Mountain . ''
