`` Finally Home , '' like previous MercyMe songs , such as their Billboard Hot 100 hit `` I Can Only Imagine '' and `` Homesick , '' is about frontman Bart Millard 's father who passed away .
He explained to Christianity Today magazine the background to the song : `` I 've been wanting for a long time to write a song that was sort of a closure for ` Imagine , ' but I did n't want it to be a sappy piano ballad .
When we were in the studio , the guys started playing music that had this Train kind of vibe - it was the kind of thing my Dad listened to .
As soon as they started playing it , I started writing down the first lines , ` I 'm gon na wrap my arms around my Daddy 's neck and tell him that I missed him . '
Then I ran in to the studio and started singing it .
That song was literally written within 5 minutes from beginning to end .
We breezed through it.I remember singing the first 2 lines and just bawling .
Then the guys were bawling .
And Brown -LRB- producer Brown Bannister -RRB- was bawling because he had lost his Dad about 5 years ago .
At the time , I did n't think it should go on the record because I never wanted to be accused of aiming for the heart just to get a reaction .
Brown was like , ` Are you kidding me ?
You made a grown man cry .
This song is going on the record .
I do n't care what you think . '
It 's just one of those moments where the lyrics and the music seem to fit perfectly . ''
Bart Millard explained the meaning behind the album 's title in the same interview : `` This is probably the first time we really sat down as a band and started asking questions like , ` What is MercyMe good at ?
What is it we are called to do ?
Where is our place in the grand scheme of things ? '
We realized that for whatever reason , our call is to reach out to the hurting , to help people get through difficult times , and if possible , to be part of the healing process .
We just decided this is who we are and what we are called to do .
This is all of who we are and all of what we do .
We want to give all of ourselves to God . ''
