A call to `` join together with the band '' seemed a little out of character for The Who , and especially Pete Townshend , who famously threatened to kill anyone who came on stage during their Woodstock performance .
Taken less literally , it makes more sense as a plea to young people , urging them to unite and take action.Townshend wrote the song in 1970 for his Lifehouse project , a Rock Opera that never came to be .
Many of the songs Townshend wrote for Lifehouse ended up on the 1971 Who 's Next album .
`` Join Together '' was recorded for the album , but did n't make the cut .
Instead , it was released as a single in the summer of 1972 .
Townshend has cited the song as one of his favorites , telling Melody Maker he thought it was `` incredible '' and was surprised the public did n't like it as much as he did .
Pete Townshend created the intro using an ARP synthesizer , which he also used on `` Who Are You ? ''
Townshend , who was very good with keyboards , also used an organ on the track , a Lowrey Berkshire TBO-1 .
This instrument also shows up in `` Baba O'Riley '' and `` Wo n't Get Fooled Again . ''
When The Who performed the song live , the intro was played on a Jew 's harp by both lead singer Roger Daltrey and drummer Keith Moon.Townshend also used two different harmonicas on the track : a chord harmonica and a bass harmonica -LRB- played live by bassist John Entwhistle -RRB- .
Roger Daltrey -LRB- from Uncut magazine -RRB- : `` I remember when Pete came up with ` Join Together , ' he literally wrote it the night before we recorded it .
I quite like it as a single , it 's got a good energy to it .
But at that time I was still very doubtful about bringing in the synthesizer .
I just felt that with a lot of songs we 'd end up spending so much time creating these piddly one-note noises that it would 've been better just doing it on a guitar .
I mean , I 'm a guitar man .
I love the guitar ; to me it 's the perfect rock instrument .
I do n't think Pete did much with those sequencing things that he could n't have done on the guitar anyway . ''
This was a live favorite for The Who .
On their 1975 - '76 tour , which included the largest indoor concert ever played to that point -LRB- 70,000 at the Pontiac Silverdome in Michigan on December 6 , 1975 -RRB- , they would play a slower version of the song as part of a jam that often included `` Naked Eye , '' `` Roadrunner '' and `` My Generation . ''
In 2008 , Nissan used this in commercials for their Maxima model .
The concept was the practicality and sportiness joining together in the vehicle .
In the ' 00s , The Who made many licensing deals , opening the floodgates for their music to be used in movies , commercials and TV shows .
