This is the first single to be released from American country artist Billy Currington 's fourth studio album .
In this song the narrator declares that drinking beer is all he 's good for .
This follows the `` beer is good '' content of Currington 's 2009 single `` People Are Crazy , '' in which he sung the line `` God is great , beer is good and people are crazy . ''
Currington told Country Weekly that `` Beer '' was inspired by fond memories of growing up in Rincon , Georgia .
`` Our Friday night parties were n't in somebody 's house .
They were in a field somewhere with a bonfire , '' he said .
`` We had trucks with loud stereos and kegs in the back ... I 've got good memories of dirt roads . ''
During an interview with The Boot , Currington explained why he believes this song connects so well with his fans : `` I actually heard it on the same -LSB- demo -RSB- CD as ` People Are Crazy . '
It was written by the same guy .
He connects well with the people who love to drink beer and party .
I had played that song , ` Pretty Good at Drinkin ' Beer ' , a hundred times , and then I started playing it for other people , and I had seen the reaction that it got .
So , that was the reason I recorded it .
I just really believed in it by the time we had to record an album .
So , I 'm still in love with it when I play it live . ''
At the end of the song a can is heard being popped .
However , despite the song 's subject matter it was not a beer can .
Currington confessed to The Boot : `` That was a root beer .
That was the only thing we had in the fridge -LSB- laughs -RSB- , but it worked . ''
The song was written by Troy Jones , who also co-wrote `` People Are Crazy '' with Bobby Braddock .
Troy Jones told The Boot the story of the song : `` Some songs , you do n't start out with a title .
And I did n't with ` Pretty Good at Drinkin ' Beer . '
I was riding down the road a few years back and got this tune going in my head .
For some reason , I got to thinking that I did n't go to college .
All I have is a high-school education .
I do n't have a trade -- I 'm not a welder and I 'm not a mechanic .
I was thinking , well , the only thing I can do is pick a guitar and write songs !
So when I got home , I picked up my guitar and those first few lines just started coming out -- that I was n't born for digging deep holes or paving roads , and all that stuff .
And it just kind of rolled out from there!I did n't have a title , so I was trying lines like , ` I 'm pretty good at ... ' all these different things .
And then I thought ... hmmm ... well , I 'm pretty good at drinkin ' beer !
-LRB- laughs -RRB- I worked on the song a while that afternoon and finished it up on maybe the third day .
Really , this song just wrote itself .
For whatever reason , that day , it just came .
Once it started , it just kept coming .
A lot of songs , you 'll work on them for weeks .
But sometimes you 'll get a gift .
And this one was a gift.I actually did n't even think it was a hit when I wrote it !
I thought it was a pretty good song and it was fun to sing , and I had fun singing it at writers ' nights .
But I never thought , boy that 's a hit , like I did when I wrote , ` People Are Crazy . '
It 's funny , sometimes I 'll think a song is great and play it for my publisher , and they 'll go , ` Oh , OK ... that 's good .
You got anything else ? '
Then I 'll play something I think stinks , and they 'll go , ` Oh we love that ! '
And I 'll go , you do ?
-LRB- laughs -RRB- For whatever reason , stuff seems to happen when I 'm on top of wheels !
Believe it or not , even when I 'm on my lawnmower !
I do drive a lot , I 'm always going somewhere .
I grew up down in Port St. Joe , Florida. , a little fishing town down there .
I drive down there several times a year .
My mom 's down there , so I go spend a couple of nights with her once in a while .
I 'll walk around and around that little town I grew up in ... and when I get back home , I generally write up a song or two .
It really does inspire me to write . ''
The Boot asked Currington what his favorite beer is .
The singer replied : `` My favorite beer would be , I do n't know .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- I do n't really drink a lot of beer , to be honest .
When I do , I like weird beers .
I like to mix it up .
I go from a Blue Moon to that dark beer , Guinness , to a Budweiser back to a Pabst Blue Ribbon , whatever .
I do n't care .
-LSB- laughs -RSB- I do n't drink enough to care . ''
Currington explained the concept for the song 's music video in an interview with 96.3 KSCS : `` The guy that shot it was Potsy .
He did my last couple of videos -- ` People Are Crazy ' and a couple of others .
He sent me this idea on the song one day and I was reading it and the whole time I was thinking , ` What a joke !
I am not wearing a wig .
I am not wearing a moustache .
I 'm not doing any of these things .
I do n't want to a part of no beer pong . '
So , I just wrote him back and was like , ` Man , thanks a lot , but maybe we do n't even do a video for this song . '
And , he said , ` Man , you are crazy !
Everybody loves this concept ! '
And , I 'm like , ` Who ? '
-LSB- laughs -RSB- So , I started hearing the people at my label saying , ` Man , it 'll be fun .
It 'll be different .
Go try it . '
And , I said , ` If it does n't turn out good , you 'll trash it , right ? '
And , they agreed .
And , it turned out funny . ''
