Devo co-founder Mark Mothersbaugh told us : `` Jocko Homo was one of the first songs I wrote for the band .
The whole song was meant to be a theme song for the theory of de-evolution and for Devo , what we were about .
It was meant to lay out the story right there .
It was a collection of discussions we had where we sat around in Kent after students had been shot , and decided that what we were seeing happening on the planet , when we looked at the news and read the paper , was not evolution but was more appropriately described as de-evolution . ''
When we spoke with Devo co-founder Jerry Casale , he said : `` That was kind of our position statement .
It was our mission statement saying , ` Hey look , humans are making up stories about why we 're here and how we got here and who we are and what our importance is and it 's all basically rubbish , it 's absurd .
You do n't know what 's going on , and that 's OK .
In fact , if you admit you do n't know what 's going on and you admit there are alternative explanations for things , then you 're already better off , and there 's a lot of things you wo n't do because you 'd quit believing in ridiculous things that drive you to actions that cause more pain and suffering in the world . '
It was kind of a Dada , self-effacing kind of statement , like , ` Look , we 're all pinheads here on this planet together . ' ''
Casale : `` We moved the debate sideways - you believe what you want , but we like this guy that said we 're all descendants of cannibalistic apes that ate the brains of other apes and went crazy and lost their tails .
That explained what we were looking at in the world better than Darwinism or Creationism . ''
Casale : `` We were kind of poetically explaining what it meant to be Devo , and what de-evolution was .
We did n't see any evidence that man was the result of some never ending linear progress and everything was getting better .
When we were growing up , the magazines would show the world in 1999 , and it 'd be this beautiful , futuristic , domed city with everybody going around in jets and space-cars .
Everybody was fed and everybody was groomed and everybody seemed to have tons of money .
It 's such a joke , what really happened was : the planet got more and more overrun by population , greater gaps between the rich and the poor , more new diseases , decimation of the environment .
It seemed like even though people were getting more ` free ' information from television and newspapers , they were actually less informed , less thoughtful , and acting dumber .
So we saw de-evolution .
The fact that a bad actor could be elected president was more proof to us .
Things have just gone downhill from there .
We did n't really want it to all be true , instead it looks like de-evolution was clearly real .
In retrospect , compared to what 's going on today , Reagan looks like a serious guy . ''
Jocko Homo means `` Monkey Man . ''
Mothersbaugh was a student at Kent State University when a friend gave him a pamphlet called `` Jocko Homo , Heaven Bound King of the Apes . ''
It was a religious pamphlet debunking evolution , explaining how absurd the idea was that a man would descend from a monkey .
The pamphlet was printed in the '30s by a religious zealot from Rogers , Ohio .
One of the pictures showed a devil pointing up a staircase that said `` 2 million years along the stairway to heaven . ''
The devil had ` De-Evolution ' written on his chest and was laughing and pointing up the stairs .
The stairs had names like slavery , world war , drunkenness , adultery - it kept going with horrible attributes of man .
Mothersbaugh : `` The chorus that keeps repeating the ` Are we not men ' is directly from the very first Island Of Lost Souls -LRB- 1932 -RRB- .
There were 2 remakes that were both tepid and not nearly as compelling as the original .
The original had a mad scientist on a deserted Pacific Island where he operated on animals - beasts from the jungle , in a room called the House Of Pain .
He operates on these beasts to try to raise them up on the evolutionary chart .
It 's a very painful operation and when he does this , you can hear them screaming in the middle of the night in the House Of Pain .
His biggest success was a female named Lota who used to be a panther , but these animals keep devolving backwards .
Lota gets cat claws , and she knows she 's devolving .
He has to do a painful operation to bring her back again , but in the meantime you see all these characters that are like sub-human , half-animal , half-man creatures that stumble around the jungle .
Some of them could hold menial jobs at the House Of Pain .
At one point , they were walking in a line around a fire in the woods at night while the doctor 's working in the House Of Pain , and they were casting shadows on the side of the House Of Pain , and I saw these shadows of these sub-human creatures just slouching past the wall , and I was like , ` Holy crap , I know all those people , they live here in Akron with me . '
That 's where the inspiration came from .
The mad scientist would crack a whip standing on a rock and all the animals would come to attention , and he 'd go , ` What is the law ? '
Usually it meant one of them had broken the law , like bad dogs that are n't house trained yet .
They would all go in kind of a humble fashion , ` Not to spill blood . '
Then he would go ` Are we not men ? '
and he 'd crack the whip again and then he goes , ` What is the law ? '
and they 'd have another law they 'd have to repeat like ` Not to eat flesh ' or ` Not to walk on all fours . '
Then he 'd crack the whip again and go ` Are we not men ? '
So that 's where the line came from .
There were like , watered down , wussy versions of it in the later Islands Of Dr. Moreau stuff , but that was a really intense movie .
If you were sitting in a living room in Akron , Ohio in 1972 with some quack religious pamphlet sitting on your lap , the next thing was easy . ''
This was Devo 's first album .
It was produced by Brian Eno , who was in the band Roxy Music and also produced Talking Heads .
He was an innovator of electronic , synthesizer-based music .
With the exception of `` Whip It , '' Devo did n't have any big hits , but their music was very influential and continues to be in demand for movies and commercials .
Mothersbaugh runs a production company called Mutato Muzika , and has worked on the music for many movies , including Happy Gilmore , Rugrats , and Rushmore .
Casale directed all of Devo 's videos , and continues to work on music videos and commercials .
He has directed music videos by The Cars , The Foo Fighters , Soundgarden and Rush .
-LRB- Thanks to Jerry and Mark for speaking with us about this song - check out our Devo interview -RRB-
