This was written by Grace Slick , who based the lyrics on Lewis Carroll 's book Alice In Wonderland .
Like many young musicians in San Francisco , Slick did a lot of drugs .
She saw lots of drug references in Carroll 's book , including the pills , the smoking caterpillar , the mushroom , and lots of other images that are generally trippy .
She noticed that lots of children 's ' stories involve a substance of some kind that alters reality , and felt it was time to write a song about it .
Slick wrote and performed this when she was in a band called The Great Society .
She brought it with her , along with `` Somebody To Love , '' when she joined Jefferson Airplane in 1966 .
On an original recording by The Great Society , the song is barely recognizable due to Grace 's higher voice before several throat operations to remove nodes that lowered her vocal range .
This was used as the theme song for a 1973 movie called Go Ask Alice .
This was one of the defining songs of the 1967 `` Summer Of Love . ''
As young Americans protested the Vietnam War and experimented with drugs , `` White Rabbit '' often played in the background .
The Airplane was often found giving free concerts around the Haight-Ashbury area of San Francisco .
They shared a large house with several musicians during the psychedelic '60s , often applying for and receiving parade permits to walk the streets .
Grace Slick was always a radical thinker , rejecting `` Daddy 's money . ''
She once appeared on The Merv Griffin talk show made up in black face , causing a big controversy .
This capped off Jefferson Airplane 's set at Woodstock in 1969 .
They took the stage at 8am on the third day , following a performance by The Who that started at 3am .
This song is heard multiple times in the movie The Game with Michael Douglas .
It demonstrates the madness Douglas feels in the movie .
-LRB- thanks , Nathan - Brugge , Belgium -RRB- Grace Slick said in Q magazine that she wrote this song , `` on a funny-looking upright piano with about eight keys missing . ''
The singer added : `` I took acid and listened to Miles Davis 's Sketches of Spain album for 24 hours straight until it burned into my brain . ''
Slick got the idea for this after taking LSD and spending hours listening to the Miles Davis album Sketches Of Spain .
The Spanish beat she came up with was also influenced by Ravel 's `` Bolero . ''
This is used in the stage production The Blue Man Group , and appears on their 2003 album The Complex .
Music is a big part of the show , which features 3 blue guys engaging the audience with a combination of comedy , percussion , and sloppy stunts .
They got a lot of attention when they were used in ads for Intel .
The UK version of the album did n't have this on it .
Did the band ever get sick of this song ?
Grace Slick answered this question in a 1976 interview with Melody Maker when she replied : `` I can play around with a song on stage without ruining it .
We stopped doing ` White Rabbit ' for a couple of years because we were getting bored with it .
I like it again and we included it last year 'cause it was the year of the rabbit . ''
`` Go Ask Alice '' which is a lyric from this song , inspired an anonymous author to put out a book with that same title .
The book was a `` diary '' of a young girl in the 1960s who had a drug addiction and died .
The diary owner 's name is never given , and the diary is suspected to be fictional even after it was promoted as true , and the anonymous author is suspected to be Beatrice Sparks , the book 's editor .
-LRB- thanks , BustaJuss - SoPo , NJ -RRB- According to Grace Slick 's autobiography , the album name came when bandmate Marty Balin played the finished studio tapes to Jerry Garcia of The Grateful Dead , whose first reaction was `` Sounds like a surrealistic pillow . ''
Slick says that she loves the fact that the phrase Surrealistic Pillow `` leaves the interpretation up to the beholder .
Asleep or awake on the pillow ?
Dreaming ?
Making love ?
The adjective ` Surrealistic ' leaves the picture wide open . ''
In the film Fear and Lothing in Las Vegas , there is a scene where Dr. Gonzo is in a bathtub and this song is playing on a tape player .
In an effort to end his life , Gonzo implores Raoul Duke to put the tape player in the tub `` When White Rabbit peaks . ''
Instead of doing as instructed , Duke throws a grapefruit at Gonzo and unplugs the tape player .
-LRB- thanks , Justin - Durango , CO -RRB- Slick claimed to Q that the song was aimed not at the young but their parents .
She said : `` They 'd read us all these stories where you 'd take some kind of chemical and have a great adventure .
Alice in Wonderland is blatant ; she gets literally high , too big for the room , while the caterpillar sits on a psychedelic mushroom smoking opium .
In the Wizard of Oz , they land in a field of opium poppies , wake up and see this Emerald City .
Peter Pan ?
Sprinkle some white dust-cocaine-on your head and you can fly . ''
