Toronto born and Brooklyn raised singer-songwriter Script Shepherd supplied the beat for this track .
He also sung the chorus - the first time he 'd ever got to sing a guest hook on an album .
Despite sharing the title with 2005 movie The Cinderella Man , the song was not inspired by the Russell Crowe flick .
At the time Shepherd was getting over the loss of his older brother who got stabbed in front of his mother .
He explained ; `` I liked the film .
But at the time , I was going through a hard time .
My brother had just passed away .
It 's a stadium feel , an anthem , '' Shepherd added about the song .
`` Like marching , marching towards something .
The sound is big , the message is big on the record .
It 's about just coming from nothing , not doubting yourself .
It sounds like you 're marching towards a goal .
The guitars are rifting , and it has little bells keeping it melodic .
It 's a strong record that 's motivating .
And Em did something motivating with it .
I just wanted to have people feel like they 're moving with the record , have a Rocky feel .
It sounded more authentic to have people feel like they were stomping in the record .
`` Shepherd explained the chorus is meant to inspire .
`` The hook says , ` If I had a time machine , I 'd be a Cinderella man / Music is my time machine / Call me Cinderella man , ' '' he said .
`` Basically , it 's like , music can allow you to do all types of things .
You can change the world with music .
You can go back and enlighten and move people forward just with sounds and connection .
Music is a time machine . ''
Shepherd and his team sent the track with the hook to Eminem 's camp and the Detroit rapper chose the song through Shady A&R rep Riggs Morales .
Script only got to hear the finished version when Recovery leaked .
`` I was in the bathroom , '' he recalled to MTV News `` My wife called me , and I thought it was a bug -LSB- in the house -RSB- .
She was like , ` You got ta come now . '
It was amazing .
I was in the house with my family .
My kids were going to sleep .
I woke them up .
It was such a tight-knit project .
I did n't have a copy of it .
I heard it on the Internet like everybody else , and I was the most excited person in the world , besides my wife . ''
