This is the opening track from American rock band Midlake 's third album , The Courage Of Others .
The tenderly apocalyptic number opens with a solo folk guitar intro and introduces the album 's theme of wanting to escape modern trappings .
Smith explained to The Guardian January 28 , 2010 his new found fascination with 1960s British folk rock : `` With me not coming from a well-rounded background in rock music or anything , all of this was new to me , '' he said .
`` I 'd never heard Crosby , Stills & Nash before , or Elton John or Jethro Tull , Joni Mitchell , Neil Young .
So with Van Occupanther I just thought wow , I really like this 70s sound , there 's something magical about the stuff , and I really connected with it , so we had to go in that direction .
I did n't want to change the sound or anything , the sound is fine .
I do n't mind if we do n't change or evolve .
But it 's kind of ... an accident .
I was buying cheap vinyl , just based on the covers really , but then you listen to them and you start finding out about all the other bands .
You just start to fall in love with a kind of music that I 'd never really heard before .
And I just had to show the band , you know , this will be the new sound , this is the kind of direction I 'd like to get a bit more of in our sound . ''
Lead singer Tim Smith told Mojo magazine February 2010 that it was his discovery of British folk rock icons such as Steeleye Span , Pentangle and Fairport Convention , that convinced Midlake to adopt a new style .
Said Smith : `` It took us a lot of time to learn how to play more in that style .
It was n't a technical thing as much as a mental thing , of getting that kind of a vibe out of a guitar - a lot of changes .
this album is a lot more guitar-orientated - we were doing away with all the keyboards .
We had to learn to play together as a band better .
We threw away a lot of material that was n't working , and we just recorded and recorded and found out what worked and what did n't .
You can imagine it was very frustrating , going home every day and not having anything for the album after nine months of work .
Then , exactly a year from the time we started that , we got ` Acts Of Man , ' the first song on the album .
Once we had that it was kind of opened up to us . ''
