Check out the female vocal at the end of this song - that 's a pre-fame Katy Perry , who also appears in the video .
When we spoke with P.O.D. lead singer Sonny Sandoval , he explained how it happened : `` We did Testify -LRB- 2006 album -RRB- with Glen Ballard .
Glen Ballard 's got a million Grammys , he 's worked with Alanis Morissette , he 's just an amazing , amazing man .
So that was his protégé at the time .
So when we did that song ` Goodbye for Now , ' we 're like , you know what would be cool is if we just got a cool female vocal .
And he 's like , ' I got just the perfect person . '
And here comes little Katy Perry .
She 's a little studio rat , she 'd just come around , and such a sweet girl .
You could tell she came from a good family , and just wanted to show the Jesus tattoo on her wrist , and she was like , ' I think I saw you guys in a youth rally so many years ago . '
I 'm like , ` That 's so cool . '
But here she was in Hollywood trying to do her thing and make her career.It 's like choices and decisions .
We heard she made this Christian gospel record and all of a sudden here she is in Hollywood just trying to figure it out .
That 's just the journey of life .
So we 're good friends with her , she 'd hang out all the time .
She did Jay Leno with us and a couple of other TV shows , and we 'd always see her in and out of Hollywood just networking and stuff .
And who 'd have ever guessed she 'd be one of the biggest pop stars in the world right now ? ''
The working title for this song was `` Autumn '' because the band was recording it for the record during this time .
-LRB- thanks , Tim - Pittsburgh , PA , for above 2 -RRB- Lead singer Sonny Sandoval said of this song : `` When I sing , ` If joy really comes in the morning time then I 'm gon na sit back and wait until the next sunrise , ' I 'm talking about that promise we have of a better tomorrow .
It might be tough right now , but I have to stick it out .
I relate that to my mother 's passing , other family members who have passed away , and how I had to deal with it .
But , anybody can relate to the song .
It 's all in how you take it and how the lyrics relate to you . ''
