This up-tempo Country song is the lead single for American Country band Little Big Town 's fourth album , The Reason Why .
Nashville-based singer-songwriter Wayne Kirkpatrick wrote this song along with the band .
When we spoke with Phillip Sweet of Little Big Town , he explained : `` We had been writing for the record and were feeling like we were coming up with some cool ideas but not quite landing on something that would start the avalanche of creativity to get this whole record feeling in the right direction .
But the day we started writing ` Little White Church ' together , it felt that way.And it came together pretty fast .
Karen -LRB- Fairchild -RRB- had the idea written in her book , ` little white church , ' because you drive around Tennessee in Franklin , you see all these beautiful , quaint , picturesque , little white churches all over the place .
And she had the idea for a call and answer type thing .
I think her and Kimberly -LRB- Schlapman -RRB- had been listening a lot to Patty Loveless ' Mountain Soul record .
And there 's all that cool bluegrass call and answer stuff .
And so she had the thought of , ` take me down , take me down , ' that call and answer . ''
Want to check out the church in the video ?
Phillip Sweet told us where it is : `` That little white church was actually in Tennessee , and it was n't too far from Nashville .
I want to say maybe 30-45 minutes outside .
There 's a lot of those little pretty farms , like Watertown and some of those areas .
I think that was in Lebanon , maybe .
And I 'm trying to remember exactly , I do n't want to misquote it , but it was hundreds of acres of land and an old iron bridge .
After we shot the video , we had to go to the Kentucky Derby and play , and it rained like crazy that weekend .
That 's when we had all the floods .
I think that old bridge that we walked across , the little bridge that we 're standing there waiting on Karen in the video , I think that bridge is gone .
That creekway flooded it and may have washed that whole bridge out .
But it was some beautiful stretch of untainted land .
It was pretty cool . ''
Karen Fairchild told People Country magazine : `` Little white churches are on almost every corner .
Someone once told me when you 're dating a boy , ` Do n't wash and fold clothes and cook too much for him , or he 'll fall for all of that and not for you . '
It happens a lot .
Us girls just need to make them work a tiny bit harder ! ''
This is an example of a song that picked up speed during the recording process .
Sweet explained : `` When we got to recording for these songs and started tracking that one , it just came to life .
It had that raw energy we were looking for .
We tried to even track it smaller with 3 to 4 players just so it would have that space and that raw kind of rocking edge .
I just love that .
Every time that track kicks on , it just jumps out at you .
And that 's what we wanted .
It sounds and feels like we had fun , because we did . ''
