This is the first single to be taken from California rock band Papa Roach 's 2010 album , Time For Annihilation .
The release features eleven live tracks and five brand new songs , including this cut .
Frontman Jacoby Shaddix explained : `` We 've always wanted to capture the energy of our live shows but did n't want to do the same old thing that most bands do , so we decided to put five brand new studio tracks on the record along with some of our favorites from the road and we are really proud of the final result .
As a band , we always push ourselves to evolve musically and pride ourselves on putting on an entertaining and explosive live show .
Time For Annihilation captures both these elements and delivers the true essence of Papa Roach . ''
This is one of five new songs on the record .
Shaddix told CMU how they created the quintet of fresh tunes : `` This time , we went home to Sacremento and camped out at our Red House studio and laid down our original ideas for the new songs .
Then we went to New Jersey to record the tracks with David Bendeth , who thought our ideas were cool but wanted to expand on them and ` make them great . '
Which was definitely challenging for me as an artist , because that 's hard to hear !
But it pushed us and we managed to evolve the sound , and it allowed us to discover the rock n roll band inside us .
We played around with different beats , loops , sequences and just ended up going in a new direction . ''
In an interview with The Skunk No. 5 , Papa Roach guitarist Jerry Horton revealed that the album title seemed natural , it being the band 's huddle chant before each show .
It is also a lyric quote from their 2006 track `` Crash . ''
Shaddix explained the song 's meaning to FMQB : `` That song is basically saying , ` What does n't kill me makes me stronger . '
No matter how hard life gets , or whatever arrows get throw at you , you 're going to be all right .
This too shall pass .
For me that song is about a lot of my issues in my personal life and also over the years what the band has been through ... different record companies , different presidents at the same record company , presidents that have gotten our CD and thrown it across the room and said , ` What the hell am I going to do with this dead band ? '
We 've been through a lot of adversity both professionally and personally , so that 's what that song is about . ''
