This is the first single from American pop rock band Maroon 5 's third studio album , Hands All Over .
The song documents the decay of a relationship , familiar territory for the band .
Frontman Adam Levine told MTV News : '' ` Misery ' is about the desperation of wanting someone really badly in your life but having it be very difficult .
Kind of what all the songs I write are about .
I 'm not treading on new ground , but I think a lot of people - including myself - deal with that all the time .
Relationships are difficult , and it 's good therapy to write about them . ''
The female lead 's attempts to kill her lover in the video results in plenty of action sequences .
This meant that stuntmen were required to double up for the band members in some of the scenes .
Levine admitted to MTV News : `` I 'll tell you a little secret ... the stuntmen were so great , but they probably were n't too happy because they had to dress like us -LSB- for the video -RSB- , which was hilarious , because we are n't the most masculine dressers .
This dude who was -LSB- keyboardist -RSB- Jesse -LSB- Carmichael -RSB- 's stunt double was , like , really buff , and he has Jesse 's little low-top Converse and skinny jeans on .
The shoes were , like , falling off his massive ankles .
`` Levine added : `` I did a lot of stuff , a lot of stuff is me !
But most of it was n't very dangerous .
Although , by the end of the day , even not being hit by things is such a physical thing that I was really kind of beat up .
I was like , ` Man , even thinking I got my ass kicked feels like getting my ass kicked . ' ''
Levine told MTV News about the Joseph Kahn-directed video .
`` The cool thing is , when Joseph wrote the treatment after reading a few sentences , I thought it was really amazing , '' he said .
`` Because it kind of turns the whole idea of the sexual energy between two people - a guy and a girl , a music video , you 've seen that a million times - that exists in this video , but it 's turning it on its ass and having the girl be the more domineering one who 's trying to kill me .
`` The clip was filmed in Los Angeles with Levine 's girlfriend - Russian model Anne Vyalitsyna - playing the leading lady .
