This was written by Doug Ingle , Iron Butterfly 's vocalist and keyboard player .
His father was a church organist .
Doug Ingle did not intend it this way when he wrote the song , but he album version is over 17 minutes long .
The single was edited for radio .
The band 's original guitar player quit before this was recorded .
He was replaced by Eric Braun , who had only played the guitar for 3 months .
This was the first hit song that could be classified as `` Heavy Metal . ''
The phrase was introduced that year in the Steppenwolf song `` Born To Be Wild . ''
Hip-Hop artist Nas has 2 different songs that sample this .
The first was `` Thief 's Theme '' from his 2003 double album Street 's Disciple .
The second was the title track of his 2006 album Hip-Hop is Dead .
-LRB- thanks , Nick - Erwin , NC -RRB- The recording that is heard on the album was done as soundcheck filler for engineer Don Casale while the band waited for the arrival of producer Jim Hilton .
However , after the rehearsal was completed it was agreed that the performance was of sufficient quality that another take was n't needed .
The title was supposed to be `` In The Garden Of Eden . ''
Someone had written `` In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida , '' possibly while drunk , on a demo copy .
A record company executive saw it and decided to use it as the title , since it sounded mystical and Eastern spirituality was big at the time , with The Beatles going to India and The Rolling Stones experimenting with Indian instruments .
Ron Bushy 's drum solo is not as long as people think ; it only runs about 2 1/2 minutes , from 6.30 to a little past 9 minutes .
Doug Ingle 's organ solo immediately follows .
-LRB- thanks , James - Tracy , CA , for above 2 -RRB- The title loosely translates as `` In The Garden Of Life . ''
Iron Butterfly would have performed this at Woodstock , but they did n't make it because they were stuck at the airport .
Danny Weiss of Iron Butterfly was recommended to Al Kooper by David Crosby -LRB- of Crosby , Stills , & Nash -RRB- , right when Kooper was forming Blood Sweat & Tears .
As given in Backstage Passes and Backstabbing Bastards , `` I loved the guitarist , introduced myself , and explained this concept to him .
He thought it was a good idea , but insisted that he was committed to the band he was in .
His name was Danny Weiss , and his band was Iron Butterfly .
He left soon after we met anyway , and and joined the great but doomed band Rhinoceros . ''
The song was used in The Simpsons episode `` Bart Sells His Soul , '' where Bart switches a hymn out for this song and convinces the Reverend Lovejoy it is penned by I. Ron Butterfly .
The whole 17-minute version is played by the First Church of Springfield 's exhausted church organist .
