This is the first single from Curve , the eighth studio album by Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace .
The record was recorded from 2010 through 2012 at vocalist Raine Maida 's home recording studio .
This song was released on December 20 , 2011 .
The disc debuted at # 9 on the Canadian Albums Chart and this song eventually reached # 1 on the Canadian Active Rock Chart.This song -LRB- and the whole Curve album -RRB- was inspired by the retired Canadian boxer George Chuvalo .
Chuvalo fought between 1956 and 1979 and was only knocked down twice in 93 career fights .
He fought boxing legend Muhummad Ali twice , once in 1966 and then again in 1972 .
Ali was unable to knock Chuvalo out and called him `` one of the toughest guys I ever fought . ''
Our Lady Peace liked Chuvalo 's spirit both inside the ring and out and decided to write songs that embodied that same spirit .
An old picture of Chuvalo throwing a punch serves as the cover of Curve .
The intro and verses of this tune are centered on a heavy , distorted guitar riff that OLP guitarist Steve Mazur realized was `` different '' when he first wrote it .
Mazur told us in 2012 : `` I brought it to Raine and showed it to him and it was n't quite there yet .
He said , ` No , I think we 're on to something here .
Go try to make it cooler . '
So I went back and put some other notes in there and when I sent it to him , we kind of felt like we had something there . ''
Maida told AOL Music that this song was inspired by the struggle that both the boxer and the artist endure .
He explained : `` Over the years I have come to realize that musicians and boxers have a lot in common .
There are strong emotional and physical similarities between the two .
The boxer skillfully relies on rhythm and improvisation to control a fight .
An artist relies on rhythm and improvisation to help guide the listener .
The Boxer uses footwork , punching combinations and tempo to attack and escape his opponent .
The artist uses chord progressions , melody and tempo to help the listener escape .
Either in the ring or onstage , both the fighter and artist put a piece of their soul on display in a fascinating struggle of determination and acceptance .
It 's a struggle for affirmation that their work and life force are worthwhile .
This war is an age-old battle between ego and the sacred self .
One designed to fight the other to heal . ''
Although this was the first single from Curve released to radio , Steve Mazur says the band was n't thinking about radio or writing hits when they came up with this song .
When we talked to the axeman in 2012 , he mentioned this as one of his favorites on the album .
Said Mazur : `` That song has got a lot of depth to it and it 's a pretty dark song .
But then there 's also this chorus that 's very uplifting and you can sing along to .
We 're pretty proud of that tune . ''
