This is the lead single from the soundtrack of the movie , The Chronicles of Narnia : The Voyage of the Dawn Treader .
Underwood co-wrote the song and recorded it for the American market .
The song was covered by international acts around the world for the soundtrack release in their own countries .
They include the Swedish Idol singing group E.M.D. , UK X Factor winner Joe McElderry , 2009 Australian Idol champ Stan Walker and Italian duo Sonohra .
Once Underwood , Hodges and Lindsey started writing the song , there was a lot of goofing around .
Said Underwood : We made lots of jokes .
When you get stuck in the writing room , you start being silly .
I was like ` We really have to write the worst song ever and call it like ' I Love Narnia ' and submit that one first just to see what they do .
I bet we would have been off the job . ''
Underwood agreed to co-write the song with David Hodges and Hillary Lindsey , and to eventually record it , after she saw a rough cut of the film .
She commented : `` I 'm a big fan of the Narnia books and films , so I was really excited about seeing this new movie and writing and performing a song for it .
I was blown away by the film , and I think people are going to be really excited when they see it .
It 's the perfect holiday film .
`` She added , `` The Voyage of the Dawn Treader presents an imaginative world that 's also relatable because it 's easy to connect the characters and themes to our own lives .
The land of Narnia represents a place where the young heroes truly belong .
That inspired me to get together with David and Hillary and write ` There 's a Place for Us , ' which says that for everybody , there 's a place where you 're powerful and where you belong .
The movie and song are about finding that place where you fit in . ''
Underwood told The Wall Street Journal how she came to write this song .
`` First they approached us to see if I would be interested in something like this , and I 've definitely been a fan of the books and movies .
My mom used to read them in her classes when she was teaching .
So I was definitely intrigued .
The next step was watching the movie .
I saw it in its very early stages , '' she explained .
`` There was still a lot of green screen going on -- which is always fun .
I enjoy seeing things when they 're in the process of being put together .
And after that , once I was on board because I really enjoyed the movie , it was all about trying to find people who would be a good fit to write with me on it .
We then all saw the movie together .
For the next four days after that , we went in to write .
Just to see if we could come up with anything .
`` Underwood added that her small-town upbringing in Oklahoma helped prepare her for the experience .
`` It really was n't hard , '' she insisted .
`` The whole premise of the movie is about this other world and growing up I 've definitely felt the way the characters in the movie felt because they 're in this place , and they felt like they should be off somewhere else having adventures and having this amazing life and instead they feel like they can never get there .
I can definitely relate to the characters , growing up in a small town and having big dreams .
It 's not like we had to incorporate boats and water into the song .
It was more metaphorical .
It was about the feeling , not the setting . ''
