This electronic-tinged track is the first full single release of singer-songwriter and Gossip Girl actress , Leighton Meester .
The song finds Leighton dueting with Robin Thicke , whom the Gossip Girl actress says she absolutely adores .
She gushed to Entertainment Weekly , `` He 's so soulful , and his voice is so flawless and beautiful .
I do n't even think he knows how much I love him . ''
Meester told MTV News that Thicke 's verse is the perfect complement to her part of the song .
`` The way that the song came about , I had written and recorded the song earlier .
And then he jumped on it later on , and now that I 've heard it that way , I do n't want anyone to hear it any other way . ''
She added : `` I think it 's a perfect song , too , for being a duet .
He 's the answer -LSB- to my questions -RSB- .
And he has such a sexy voice on a sexy song . ''
Meester told MTV News about the song 's music video : `` It 's basically going through a sexy day in my life .
We start off in the car , we come in , I keep on fantasizing and dreaming that I 'm with somebody I can love .
He kind of comes and goes .
He disappears .
It 's mostly about the clothes and the looks , so that 's exciting for me .
I 've had a lot of fun with that . ''
The song 's theme of searching for true love is something Meester personally struggles with .
She told Entertainment Weekly : `` I so often get love confused with sex and vice versa .
And the song is basically about how I ca n't get any -- I ca n't find anyone to love . ''
The song was written by Rico Love -LRB- Jamie Foxx , Beyoncé , Usher -RRB- and produced by Mike Caren and Oligee -LRB- Flo Rida , Cobra Starship -RRB- .
Love said in a statement : `` I was honored when I found out that my record was chosen to be Leighton 's first single .
It 's exciting to be able to show a different side of my work and me .
I listen and study all types of music , and I want to share that with the world .
What better way to do that than with one of the biggest stars in entertainment today . ''
Thicke told MTV News that it was as a result of catching Meester on an episode of Entourage playing a pop singer that he knew he wanted to work with her on this tune .
`` I heard the song , and I knew right away it was a hit song , '' he said .
`` I 'm not totally familiar with Gossip Girl .
I first saw Leighton on Entourage .
I thought she was electric and seductive , and then I watched an episode of Gossip Girl and I thought it was great . ''
