Classically trained singer-songwriter Tom Odell hails from Chichester in Southern England .
He started writing melodies at the age of 13 , storing all his ideas on a Dictaphone for years before moving up to London so that more people could hear his music .
Lily Allen attended one of the singer-songwriter 's shows , and impressed , she introduced him to some A&R people at Columbia who signed him up to the label .
This stirring piano ballad is the title track of his debut EP , Songs From Another Love .
Odell made his television debut when he performed this song on the November 27 , 2012 episode of Later ... With Jools Holland .
Odell told The Mail On Sunday that he believes it best to avoid settling down - for the good of his songwriting .
`` When I was 16 or 17 I fell in love with someone and she broke my heart , '' he said .
`` That 's what ` Another Love ' is about , but I struggle to write if I 'm happy . ''
Regarding the song 's meaning , Odell explained to The Sun : `` It 's about a particular relationship that I had .
It 's that feeling a lot of people have when they 're in a new relationship but they ca n't stop thinking about the last one . ''
The song also featured on Odell 's debut long-player , Long Way Down , which he told Digital Spy , `` is about the end of a relationship . ''
He added that this tune `` is on the darker side of the album . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Jamie Thraves , who has previously worked with Blur , Radiohead and The Verve .
It was filmed whilst Odell was in LA for his sold-out Troubadour show in May 2013 .
He explained : `` A director called Jamie Thraves got in touch with an idea for a short film for ` Another Love ' .
He 's made some of my favourite videos and films and I jumped at the chance to work with him .
I 've always been fascinated by the power of music in film and how they work together and Jamie 's idea kinda blew me away .
We shot it in LA a few weeks back , and I co-star with this dog called Patch and a brilliant actress . ''
