This was written by songwriters Paul Williams and Kenny Ascher for The Muppet Movie , which came out in 1979 .
In the film , it is sung by Kermit The Frog as the Muppets set out to find adventure .
Says Williams : `` Rainbow Connection was the first number in The Muppet Movie .
It 's the one that establishes the lead character .
We find Kermit sitting in the middle of the swamp .
Kenny Ascher and I sat down to write these songs , and we thought ... Kermit , he 's like ` every frog . '
He 's the Jimmy Stewart of frogs .
So how do we show that he 's a thinking frog , and that he has an introspective soul , and all that good stuff ?
We looked at his environment , and his environment is water and air - and light .
And it just seemed like it would be a place where he would see a rainbow .
But we also wanted to show that he would be on this spiritual path , examining life , and the meaning of life.It tells you that he 's been exposed to culture : ` Why are there so many songs about rainbows ? '
Which means , obviously , he 's heard a lot of songs .
This is a frog that 's been exposed to culture , whether it 's movies , or records , or whatever .
And I also like the fact that it starts out with the negative : ` Rainbows are only illusions , rainbows have nothing to hide . '
So the song actually starts out as if he 's going to pooh-pooh the whole idea , and then it turns : ` So we 've been told , and some choose to believe it .
I know they 're wrong , wait and see . '
And again , he does n't have the answer : ` Someday we 'll find it . ' ''
Williams was a guest star on the first season of The Muppet Show , and Jim Henson asked him to write music for Emmet Otter 's Jugband Christmas , which they filmed in Canada where they had a Muppet workshop .
Says Williams : `` We tried a bunch of things that wound up in The Muppet Movie .
You know , Kermit riding a bicycle .
When they made The Muppet Movie in 1979 , the Muppets were at the absolute peak of popularity .
It was a really big deal .
-LSB- Jim -RSB- asked me again if I would write the songs for it .
I said yes , but I wanted to bring in Kenny Ascher , who I 'd been working with , because his melodies are so classically beautiful .
I brought Kenny in and we wrote the songs , and just had a ball .
Jim Henson gave you more -LSB- creative -RSB- freedom than anybody I 've ever worked with in my life .
I said , ` You want to hear the songs as we 're writing them ? '
He said , ` No .
I 'll hear them in the studio .
I know I 'm gon na love them . '
You just do n't get that kind of freedom on a project these days . ''
Regarding the lyrics , `` The sweet sound that calls the young sailors , '' Paul Williams told us : `` I think that I 've always had a fascination with the sea .
It 's a metaphor for the call to adventure , you know ?
That voice is something inside us that says you can do anything .
There 's a great mysterious world out there , let 's go see it . ''
The Carpenters recorded this in 1980 , but decided not to release it .
In 2001 , Richard Carpenter included it on his album As Time Goes By .
In the liner notes , he explained : `` As with ` Leave Yesterday Behind , ' Karen 's vocal on this track is a ` work lead ' ; the singers and orchestra were added in 1999 .
Fans , knowing of the track 's existence , have been writing me for years , asking for it 's release .
I try to be accommodating . ''
The Brothers Cazimero recorded a Hawaiian language version with the Honolulu Boys Choir in the 1980s .
The final verse is in English as a final affirmation of the song 's message .
-LRB- thanks , Patrick - Wahiawa , HI , for above 2 -RRB- Paul Williams performed this on a 2008 episode of the kids ' TV show Yo Gabba Gabba !
, where he ventured inside a rainbow , and found it quite trippy .
Paul Williams has acted in many TV shows and movies , and had a regular role on the soap opera The Bold And The Beautiful .
He wrote several songs that were recorded by the Carpenters , as well as `` Evergreen , '' which won an Oscar when it was used in the 1976 movie A Star Is Born .
Says Williams : `` The best part of being a songwriter - beyond being able to make a living at it - is what I call the ` heart payment ' of a song .
That 's when somebody comes up after a concert and says , ` My mom was a single mom , and ` You And Me Against The World ' was a really important song to us . '
Or ` We got married to ` We 've Only Just Begun '' or ` Evergreen . '
Or ' I Wo n't Last A Day Without You ' got me through some hard times . '
That 's heart payment for a songwriter . ''
Sarah McLachlan sang a poignant version on the album For The Kids , proceeds of which are go to Canadian and American music education programs .
Johnny Mathis , Phil Ramone and The Dixie Chicks recorded it , as did Williams in a duet with Willie Nelson .
Says Williams , `` Willie and I doing the duet of ` Rainbow Connection ' is one of my favorite recordings ever in life .
The two of us , like two old guys , just talking .
It 's very conversational .
And to hear those lines come out of Willie ... One of my favorite voices ever was the guy that did the voice of Jiminy Cricket , Ukelele Ike . '
A dream is a wish your heart makes . '
Just this wonderful , sweet , sweet , sweet voice .
It felt like mail from home .
And Willie 's voice is like that to me .
There 's such a warmth there , an authenticity , an intimacy .
So to hear Willie Nelson singing those words was a real high for me . ''
Jim Henson , who created The Muppets , was the voice of Kermit The Frog .
He died of a sudden virus in 1990 at age 53 .
This was used as the main theme for a Japanese TV show called Where Is Love ? .
Justin Timberlake performed this on an episode of Saturday Night Live .
In the skit , he sings it with a Kermit look-a-like puppet , who gets angry when Justin steps on him .
Timberlake ends up attacking the puppeteer , who calls him a dirty name through the Kermit puppet .
-LRB- thanks , Lauren - Coppell , TX -RRB-
