This was the theme song to the 1985 James Bond movie of the same name starring Roger Moore and Grace Jones .
It is the only theme from a Bond movie to hit # 1 in America .
If you are a complete Duran Duran nut , you will notice during the video that there seems to be communication between three band members -LRB- Le Bon , Rhodes , and Roger Taylor -RRB- , while the other two members -LRB- John and Andy Taylor -RRB- are doing things like shooting the deployed cameras and setting Rhodes 's ear mike to explode .
John and Andy were the members who left for Power Station .
The other three made up the band Arcadia .
-LRB- thanks , Michelle - Seattle , WA , for above 2 -RRB- Duran Duran performed this at Live Aid in 1985 .
At the time , it was the # 1 song in the US , and their performance was the first song broadcast by ABC as part of their coverage of the event .
MTV broadcast most of the show in the US , while the BBC aired it in England .
The story behind this song , according to the bassist John Taylor , was that he approached the longtime Bond producer , Albert R. ` Cubby ' Broccoli , while extremely intoxicated when they were both at a party .
He stated that he was a long time fan -LRB- Major Bond geek would be more accurate .
An Aston Martin was said to be one of his first `` Rock Star '' purchases , and he frequently mentioned his Bond video collection in interviews . -RRB-
of the series , but the music for the last few movies had been mediocre .
He then offered to have his band fix the problem and Broccoli took the idea under advisement .
This was the last single Duran Duran released before they took time off to pursue side projects .
John and Andy Taylor joined Robert Palmer to form The Power Station , while Simon Le Bon , Nick Rhodes , and Roger Taylor formed Arcadia .
A year later Le Bon , Rhodes and John Taylor continued recording as Duran Duran .
Looking back at this song during a 2012 interview with the A.V.Club , John Taylor commented : `` Bond songs have to be big songs , do n't they ?
They have to have the grandiosity .
It 's like designing a Rolls-Royce .
You want it to be completely state of the art , but it 's always going to have the honking great radiator grill on the front .
There 's certain criteria that have to be fulfilled .
But I think we nailed it with that song .
We really did nail it . ''
