This is n't really a ballad - it 's uptempo .
John Lennon wrote the song about his marriage to Yoko and their run-ins with various international authorities .
They married on March 20 , 1969 in Gibraltar and Honeymooned in Amsterdam .
John and Yoko 's decision to get married came very suddenly on March 14 , 1969 , just 2 days after Paul McCartney married Linda Eastman .
On March 14 , John and Yoko were being driven to Poole in Dorset to visit John 's Aunt Mimi .
John asked his chauffeur Les Anthony to go to Southampton and ask about the possibility of getting married at sea .
After learning that this was not possible , Lennon decided to go to Paris , and called his office instructing his staff to arrange a quiet wedding there .
Peter Brown discovered that getting married in Paris on such short notice was impossible , but that they could marry in Gibraltar , because it was a British protectorate , and Lennon was a British citizen .
After the wedding , John and Yoko flew to Amsterdam and invited the press to join them in their room .
Some reporters thought they were being called in to witness the couple consummate their marriage -LRB- John and Yoko appeared nude on the cover of their 1968 Two Virgins album -RRB- , but what they got instead was a `` Bed-In , '' where John and Yoko protested the war from their bed - fully clothed .
This was recorded and mixed in 9 hours on the day it was written : April 14 , 1969 .
John Lennon and Paul McCartney worked on this without the other Beatles because of the hastily called session .
The B-side of the single was a song George Harrison wrote : `` Old Brown Shoe . ''
This was the last Beatles song to be recorded specifically as a single .
Here 's a the cover photo , which says a lot about the Beatles relationship at the time .
The line `` Christ , you know it ai n't easy '' caused a great deal of controversy and got the song banned by the BBC and most US radio stations .
The Spanish guitar part at the end of the song was lifted from `` Lonesome Tears In My Eyes , '' a 1956 song by Johnny Burnette And The Rock N ' Roll Trio .
The Beatles played the song in their early years - their version can be found on the album Live At The BBC .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France , for above 2 -RRB- This was the last true Lennon/McCartney compilation .
They had been writing separately for the last few years .
In the UK , this single was released while `` Get Back '' was still at # 1 .
It just missed -LRB- by one week -RRB- knocking `` Get Back '' off the top .
`` The Ballad Of John and Yoko '' turned out to be the The Beatles 17th - and final - UK # 1 .
-LRB- thanks , Martin - Ringmer , East Sussex , England -RRB-
