This song about self-rediscovery is the first single off American rock band Kings Of Leon 's fifth studio album titled Come Around Sundown .
The record was recorded in New York at Avatar Studios and was produced by Only By The Night producers Angelo Petraglia and Jacquire King .
A children 's choir provide the song 's background vocals .
Jared explained its roots to Billboard magazine : `` We went into the studio , we tried it , and it was n't really working , and we were going to scrap the whole song .
Then -LSB- lead vocalist -RSB- Caleb went back to an old spiritual song that we all sang growing up , and it matched up with the chorus so nice . ''
-LSB- Drummer -RSB- Natan added : `` Gospel music was a big part of us growing up , so to be able to come back and revisit that part of our lives at this stage in our lives is a pretty special thing . ''
Caleb played down the song 's anthemic qualities in an interview with MTV News .
He said : `` I did n't think it would be a single , let alone the first one .
I mean , the vocal , I mess up on the first verse , I mess up on the second verse , I mean , my voice is off , so I really did n't think the label would want that as a single , but they wanted it first , '' he laughed .
`` I do n't know , I think at this point , we could do something with me tapping my foot and singing into a can and -LSB- critics -RSB- would be like , ` Oh , it 's so anthemic ' or ` Oh , it 's so stadium-friendly . ' ''
Caleb and Jared explained the story of the song in an interview with The Music Fix : Caleb : It started out as a very punk-rock song that we ended up scrapping .
But , then we ended up using that melody for the new idea which was that boom-de-da-deh .
But when we got in there , the verse and chorus were too similar .
It did n't feel like it went anywhere.Jared : We had to completely restructure the song .
And that 's what we did going into this record .
We just thought , `` we 're not going to throw away a song ; we 're gon na to make every song as good as possible .
`` Caleb : And one night -- we had been there all day , and Nathan had gone home .
And Jared had gone home ... and Angelo -LRB- Petraglio , co-producer -RRB- had gone home .
It was just me , Matthew and Jacquire -LRB- King , co-producer -RRB- .
We were playing darts and I was pretty bummed that it was n't going to make the record 'cause I thought it was strong .
I said , `` Hey , Jacquire , just record and I 'm go in here and a do a thing '' And I went in there and just , `` The road is carved up yonder . . ''
and just gave it a lot more space .
And by doing that , it made the chorus so very powerful .
The next day , we got in and I was like , `` play that . ''
When he started playing it , Nathan , Jared and Angelo -- everyone walked in : `` what is that ?
What is that song being sang very drunkenly ? ''
And it ended up working .
It ended up giving new life to the song .
Come Around Sundown debuted at # 1 in Australia , Austria , Belgium -LRB- Flanders -RRB- , Canada , Germany , Ireland , Scotland , Switzerland and the United Kingdom .
The album broke the record for the biggest first week digital album sales in the UK by selling over 49,000 downloads .
Bassist Jared Followill told Billboard magazine that although the song has never been released , it has long been in the band 's repertoire : `` We played it forever .
We started playing it around the time right after we wrote -LSB- 2005 's -RSB- Aha Shake Heartbreak .
It was kind of in between Aha Shake Heartbreak and Because of the Times , and there was actually a few songs like that that did n't make it .
You know , we save songs until we get them right . ''
The song 's music video provides a glimpse of the band 's Southern origins as Kings of Leon hang around a Southern barn whilst a children 's gospel choir are seen backing the group .
The Followill brothers spent much of their childhoods traveling round the southern states with their Pentecostal preacher father .
This song was originally titled `` It 's Alright . ''
The Come Around Sundown album title was taken from a line in John Anderson 's song `` Small Town , '' from the country singer 's 1997 album , Takin ' The Country Back .
`` Matthew was the one who heard it first and he just fell in love with it because it was so beautiful .
Once we started counting how many syllables it had , '' said Nathan -- referring to the fact that all of Kings of Leon 's album titles have five syllables -- `` it was a no-brainer . ''
The first time that Caleb saw the video he was horrified .
He asked Q magazine : `` Did you see the Russell Brand film Get Him to The Greek ?
The pop star in that film makes a very lame Live Aid-style charity video called African Child .
When I first saw the video I thought , ` We have made the video to African Child . ' ''
