He does n't remember specifics , but songwriter Matt Scannell says the word `` forever '' played through his head incessantly , and he wound up writing the chorus for this song around it .
Then , he says , `` for some reason I just came up with the first lines , ` take these roses off of me , let me live , let me be . ' ''
And it was n't until then that he realized this song was about losing someone : `` It is about someone passing away .
And the amazing thing for me is it was kind of just about wanting to hold onto the memory .
It 's actually more about people that have come and gone in my life , not really for me about one person .
But I 've had some very close friends pass away , and for some reason , I remember writing that chorus and just sort of feeling like there 's a beauty ... when someone 's gone , you feel like you 're dying in a way .
And you 're not , you just need to mourn it , you need to shoulder it for a while and kind of move through it until you can get back up straight again and move on .
Or at least not let it go .
And I think that 's what this song is about , it 's about not letting go , but not letting it stop you . ''
`` I get a lot of people saying , ' I lost my dad , and I listened to that song and it makes me remember something he said to me , ' or ` it makes me think of him , and I love that song . '
One of my dear friends whose father passed away , she told me that that 's her song for her father .
And that 's the song that she uses to kind of keep him in her life .
What an honor ; it 's a stunning , stunning feeling .
I just got chills . ''
Matt 's lyrics tend to be more on the cryptic side , and intentionally so .
He 's a fan of open interpretation , and likes that his songs cause people to think about what he might have meant when he wrote them .
He says , `` Would you rather drive down the highway ?
Or would you rather drive down the twisty back roads up to the magical view ?
I want the twisty roads , thank you .
And if my songs reflect that , then that 's just fine . ''
`` It 's one thing to me in my room late at night when I 'm trying to exorcize my demons and get some of the stuff out that I need to get out , '' he says .
`` But it 's another thing entirely when it gets out there in the world and resonates with people and it can become something that is beneficial , or even just a little whimsy , but something that they can attach to and hold as a positive thing .
And I think another thing is I try to generally write songs that are a little bit more positive than negative .
And maybe that 's because I 'm trying to perk myself up a little bit - talk myself up a little bit is a better word .
But I also know now at this point that they 're not just my songs .
They 're also everybody 's songs . ''
-LRB- Check out the full interview with Matt Scannell . -RRB-
