This soulful rock tune is one of ten tracks pulled from the Rolling Stones ' archives and re-recorded by the band for release on the 2010 update of their 1972 album , Exile on Main St. .
It was the first song released by the band from the new recordings and 7-inch limited-edition copies of the single were sold in independent stores on April 17 , 2010 , in honor of Record Store Day .
The song was the Stones ' first single release since `` Biggest Mistake '' came out on August 21 , 2006 .
Keith Richards told Billboard magazine : `` I had n't really realized how much was left over until I started going into this project .
I automatically assumed that anything good -LSB- and unused -RSB- that we 'd done on ` Exile ' would roll over to Goat 's Head Soup . ''
`` I knew there was loads of stuff lying around , '' Mick Jagger added .
`` But I did n't know what time period it came from .
I wanted to be faithful to the time period - I did n't want to take things out of context , so -LSB- I 've tried -RSB- to pick things that were recorded in that time frame .
Some of them are of interest and fun , but some of them are really good , so I hope people like them . ''
Mick Taylor told Gibson.com that it did n't take him very long to record his overdubbed guitar licks for this track .
Said Taylor : `` That was very quick .
I mean , because the track was already there for me to overdub on , and Mick had already done a rough vocal , so it did n't actually sound too much like an outtake from Exile On Main Street .
Well , it did , except Mick had added vocals and back-up vocals and all it needed was some lead guitar , which I did ... very quickly .
I think it took about two hours for me to do about four or five different passes on the guitar . ''
The track features several former members of the Rolling Stones .
Bill Wyman , who left the band in 1993 , played bass , and Mick Taylor , who left in 1974 , performed lead guitar .
Also , the late Nicky Hopkins , who previously featured on earlier Rolling Stones albums and recordings , is featured on piano .
Mick Jagger recorded new vocals in March of 2010 .
The Stones vocalist said : `` The -LRB- Exile outtakes -RRB- were n't all recorded in the same place .
Some of them I really remembered , but some of them I did n't remember at all .
Some of them were really together - ` Plunder My Soul ' that was perfect , you did n't have to edit , it was all perfect .
Some of the others were much more loose jams . ''
Lisa Fischer and Cindy Mizelle sang backup on this track .
They were called in to perform on the re-worked versions of the Exile outtakes .
They were backup singers on The Stones 1989-90 Steel Wheels tour and have performed on albums for a variety of artists , including Luther Vandross , Carly Simon and Freddie Jackson .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB-
