This haunting song was inspired by the Columbine school shootings .
On April 20 , 1999 , Columbine High School seniors Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed 13 people at their school before killing themselves .
In our interview with Amanda Palmer , she explained : `` When Columbine happened I was really affected .
Everyone in the world and all over the country was really affected by it .
But I had a special interest in it that did n't go away .
I encounter so many really disturbed , angry , lonely , frustrated teenagers , because of what I do .
And I think what Marilyn Manson said in Bowling For Columbine was brilliant .
I was so upset , especially having been a misfit in high school .
I think it was really upsetting for people to look at these kids being so demonized with so little thought given to the larger questions .
And my imagination was really captured by what the quality of these boys ' lives were like , as they were sitting in their rooms playing video games and plotting this catastrophe .
It really was my view of the whole thing , and my emotional impulse was to actually feel real sympathy for them , because I see so many kids feeling so misunderstood , and the culture around them is so hostile .
Not to say that what they did was n't completely abhorrent .
But on the other hand , when you 've got a culture of 15-year-old kids going around shooting each other , you need to ask yourself bigger questions .
And I think people are really afraid to ask those questions , which is : what 's their cultural diet ?
And why would this happen?I certainly do n't think my high school experience was as extreme .
I went to a liberal New England high school where there was a lot of tolerance .
And even though I stood out as somewhat of an outcast and a freak , we were bred to respect each other .
And no one ever really got beat up .
No one yelled names at me in the hallways .
But high school is just brutal no matter what way you cut it .
It does n't matter that on the whole , people were tolerant .
I still felt really isolated , and I think it 's a very common teenage thing to feel wherever you are . ''
The voice at the beginning of the song comes from an animated short called Strindberg and Helium : With Iron & Sulfur .
The short is based on the writings of the Swedish writer August Strindberg -LRB- 1849-1912 -RRB- .
Ben Folds produced the album with Palmer and played on this track .
The video takes place in the halls of Lexington High School in Massachusetts , where Amanda went to school .
She told us : `` I 've maintained a really great relationship with my high school drama teacher .
I got the idea for the video in my head , and I approached him and said , ` Hey , can you loan us some kids from the drama department , and can we use the hallway ? '
-LRB- laughing -RRB- ` We do n't have any money , we do n't have a cent , so let 's just shoot it in the school . '
And that 's what we did .
That was my high school .
I actually walked by my locker in that video .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- And the vast majority of those kids , with a couple of exceptions , were sophomores and juniors and seniors in the drama department .
If you look at the video for ` Guitar Hero , ' it 's the same kids .
We shot those two videos in one day.Those two videos kind of work as a pair , because that character , the killer in the ` Strength Through Music ' video , is sort of a corpse throughout the entire ` Guitar Hero ' video .
And in a way it 's a common response , because ` Guitar Hero ' is more a commentary on kids mentally tuning out of reality .
So you can see the connection between the two songs , and between the two videos . ''
