This mostly acoustic Matraca Berg and Deana Carter penned song features the vocals of Grace Potter from Grace Potter and the Nocturnals .
Chesney told Billboard magazine about the collaboration : `` This song makes me believe in music even more .
I 'd never met Grace Potter until she came into the studio .
She grew up in the woods in Vermont .
I grew up in the woods in East Tennessee .
We come from completely worlds , different backgrounds , probably religious beliefs , we have n't talked about it .
I do n't know what her political beliefs are , I do n't know nothing about any of that .
I know she 's a great person and I know that she is a hell of a singer .
I heard her voice and I knew I would love to sing with her one day .
I did n't know it would be on this , or this soon.At the end of 2007 , I rented a house North of Malibu , California , for about two months .
I was exhausted , I did n't want to talk to anybody , I did n't want to listen to music , I just wanted to be still for a minute .
Every day I would drive close in to Santa Monica , meet some friends , eat dinner , and I 'd drive back up the PCH with the windows down .
That time of year is really chilly , I 'd watch the sun set .
It 's beautiful , I loved it .
I would turn on the radio every now and then and I would hear these songs .
I heard an Eagles song , I do n't even remember what the song was .
But I remember thinking , ` Wow , I think I like music again .
` When I heard ` You and Tequila , ' it put me in that spot .
That 's when I thought of Grace , because I listened to her music a lot on the boat , a lot on the bus , her live record especially .
She has a song called ` Apology ' that still kills me .
I got in touch with her and sent her the song , I had already recorded it .
She called back the next day and said ' I want to make this happen . '
When she came in and we put our voices together , wow .
I love the song , Matraca and Deana wrote it , but , boy , it 's relatable , so universal .
To have Grace on it , that will be with me forever . ''
In an interview with NPR , Chesney said this is a `` struggle song . ''
He added , `` there are some commonalities about getting someone out of your mind and drinking and trying to quit .
I spent a lot of time -LSB- driving the Pacific Coast Highway -RSB- .
I 'd go to friends in Santa Monica about sunset .
I would drive back up to the house , had the windows down .
I 'd listen to a lot of Eagles songs and some Tom Petty .
When I heard this record and this song , it just put me in this place . ''
Potter told Rolling Stone that on hearing the song , she immediately wanted to be part of it .
She said : `` I love singing beautiful songs , that 's all I care about .
This is the first time that on the very first listen I immediately picked up the phone and said ` Make this happen . ' ''
Nashville songwriter Matraca Berg and country singer-songwriter Deana Carter penned the song .
It originally featured on Carter 's 2003 album , I 'm Just A Girl , though it was Berg 's version that Chesney heard .
He explained : `` I 've had that song for years and lived with Matraca 's demo for a long time .
After the tour in 2007 , I rented a house in Malibu , right on the cliff of the ocean , and I would drive up the Pacific Coast Highway right at sunset .
I remember I 'd roll down the windows and just listen to music .
I would listen to Tom Petty , the Eagles .
I would listen to so many songs that would fit that moment .
It was therapeutic . ''
