Will.i.am wrote this song in February 2011 , after NASA asked him to write and produce a song for the Curiosity rover 's landing on Mars .
The Black Eyed Pea rapper was present at Cape Canaveral , Florida , alongside NASA employees when the rover made its successful initial landing on the planet .
A few weeks later this ode to will.i.am 's `` passion for science , technology and space exploration '' was broadcast live from the surface of Mars , via Curiosity , to a news conference at NASA 's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena , California .
The aptly-astral titled song was the first ever music broadcast from another planet .
Rather than produce a song done via the computer , will.i.am enlisted a 40-piece orchestra and two youth choirs for the track , whilst producer/rapper Lil Jon contributes additional vocals .
`` I wanted to show human collaboration and have an orchestra there and something that would be timeless , and translated in different cultures , not have like a hip hop beat or a dance beat , '' he said .
`` A lot of times ... people in my field are n't supposed to try to execute something classical , or orchestral , so I wanted to break that stigma . ''
The Black Eyed Pea rapper said rather than penning a hit tune , his focus was more about using music to highlight his wish to inspire young people in cultivating an interest in science .
`` I have a record coming out but I have a whole bunch of facts and passion projects that bring opportunity to people that are -LSB- also -RSB- coming out .
So if my music brings awareness to those things , that 's amazing , '' said will.i.am .
`` I 'm not doing music to sell records .
Even though selling a record is cool , the song being heard is more important .
I have some of the most downloaded songs -LSB- of all time -RSB- .
Am I supposed to compete with myself ?
Because I 'm probably going to lose to myself .
So I need to start doing things to bring opportunity . ''
Here are a couple of other popular music songs that have been sent into space : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Chuck Berry 's `` Johnny B. Goode '' , which along with works by Mozart , was included on the Voyager space probe as part of a gold-plated audio-visual disc in the event that the spacecraft was ever found by intelligent life-forms from other planetary systems .
-LRB- 2 -RRB- In 2008 Nasa beamed the Beatles ' `` Across The Universe '' directly into space to commemorate both the 40th anniversary of the song and NASA 's 50th birthday .
