This song is about going insane in public .
Here 's some lyric analysis : `` If you want to destroy my sweater , hold this thread as I walk away '' - Keep doing what you 're doing as I drift further into insanity .
`` Watch me unravel , I 'll soon be naked '' - Watch me drift into insanity , I 'll soon be there , naked being full insanity .
`` Lying on the floor , I 've come undone '' - Lying on the floor , I 've become mentally Undone .
Many of the promotional singles sent to radio stations contained an edit that cut the guitar solo short .
This was a distribution error , but did n't have much effect because most radio stations played the album version .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Cuomo told Rolling Stone : `` I was trying to write a Velvet Underground-type song because I was super into them , and I came up with that guitar riff .
I just picked up that acoustic guitar and the first thing I played was that riff .
And it just feels so classic to me , even now when the band starts to play it , it just takes over the energy in the room and you 're just transported into the world of Weezer .
It was n't until years after I wrote it that I realized it 's almost a complete rip-off of ` Sanitarium ' by Metallica .
It just perfectly encapsulates Weezer to me - you 're trying to be cool like Velvet Underground but your metal roots just pump through unconsciously . ''
The opening dialogue is used to show how he is at a party , losing it , and no one notices or cares .
The two verses are used to show how he 's barely able to think and talk straight on his decent .
The part about `` I do n't want to destroy your tanktop '' is showing how other people are on the brink of insanity already , but he 's not `` pushing them off '' like they are to him , then `` To see you lying there in your Superman skivvies '' shows how every one is on the brink of insanity to begin with , even more so then he was in his `` sweater . ''
The music helps illustrate the ever-maddening mind of the guy , as it starts out normal , then at the end is hard , dark , and mad sounding , showing his slow decent into madness .
-LRB- thanks , Derek - Pittsburgh , PA , for above 2 -RRB- This was the first Weezer song that Rivers Cuomo ever wrote , back in 1991 .
Three years later it was released as the band 's first single .
Cuomo told Billboard magazine : `` It 's been the case since our first album that people thought we were just being sarcastic and ironic .
When I wrote ` The Sweater Song , ' to me it was a very sad song about depression , and people heard it on the radio and thought it was hysterical . ''
