The first single from Lauren Alaina 's second album was penned by the singer with songwriter/producer Chris DeStefano -LRB- Scotty McCreery 's `` Better Than This , '' Carrie Underwood 's `` Good Girl '' -RRB- and Texan singer-songwriter Jon Nite -LRB- Dierks Bentley 's `` Tip It On Back , '' Thompson Square 's `` Glass '' -RRB- .
It was Alaina 's second songwriting credit after co-penning `` Funny Thing About Love '' on her debut album .
The 2011 American Idol runner-up premiered the song live when she returned to the show on May 9 , 2013 .
The song 's writer Jon Nite told Roughstock the story of the song .
`` Lauren , Chris Destefano and I wrote this at Chris ' studio near Music Row , '' he recalled .
`` Sometimes songs just come out of thin air , and this really did .
I remember the three of us talking about life over the course of a few hours before we had anything on a song .
Lauren was telling us about the whirlwind of her finishing up school , making a new record , her boyfriend and catching us up on everything .
Chris started playing this incredible riff on the mandolin or guitar while we were talking .
It was so cool that we just followed it till we found the words that felt like the music .
`` I grew up in Amarillo , TX , and part of life was always fields and trucks , '' Nite added .
`` I took my wife on our first date back in Texas to a farm road off Soncy with a bunch of our friends , and we circled up and turned on the radios and hung out in between the fields .
Lauren was talking about the same kind of nights with rivers and big trucks , and all the things you do growing up here in Tennessee .
It just flowed out like it was meant to .
`` It ended up being a full day morning till night of working on the lyrics and track till we had it , but it felt really fast , '' he continued .
`` We were all just hanging and talking and enjoying the process of writing .
Lauren 's mom joined us for lunch in the middle of the write , and we told her what we had started was already cool half way through .
I remember , when the track was finished and Lauren was singing the vocal , thinking to myself that I had never heard a voice that powerful without mics or speakers or anything .
She has a true instrument and gift , and it blew me away .
The song turned out to be the picture of the best parts of our summer nights , and I 'm thankful Chris and Lauren asked me to join them to write that day . ''
