The Knack lead singer Doug Fieger wrote the lyrics to this song , which is about a girl he fancied .
Doug was in a long-term relationship when he walked into the clothing store where a high school student named Sharona Alperin -LRB- who had a boyfriend -RRB- , was working .
The age difference -LRB- he was about 8 years older -RRB- and relationship status did n't deter Fieger , who was immediately lovestruck .
With his girlfriend looking on , he invited Sharona to a show .
Not long after , he broke up with the girlfriend and professed his love for Sharona , creating a weird dynamic where he would come on to her even though she had a boyfriend who often attended Knack concerts with her .
It got pretty heavy when Fieger started writing songs about her - they were n't together when he composed `` My Sharona .
`` About a year after they first met , Sharona gave in and they started dating .
She joined the band on tour and watched as the song Fieger wrote about her elevated them to stardom .
The couple were together for about four years -LRB- and engaged at one point -RRB- before the Rock and Roll lifestyle and Fieger 's alcoholism became too much for Sharona , and they called it off .
In the aftermath , Sharona answered questions about the breakup by saying that she needed to become her own Sharona , not someone else 's .
After a cooling off period , Alperin and Fieger became friends .
Alperin was with Fieger the last week of his life ; he died of cancer on February 14 , 2010 .
Sharona Alperin became a high-end real estate agent in California , specializing in celebrity clientele .
After the passing of Fieger , Alperin wrote on her website : `` From the time Doug and I first met , both of our lives changed forever .
It 's very rare for two people to have such an impact on each other .
The bond we shared is something that I will treasure as long as I live , he will always have a special place in my heart . ''
Quentin Tarantino wanted to use this in Pulp Fiction during the scene where Bruce Willis and Ving Rhames are being set upon by Zed and his brother -LRB- and the chained submissive -RRB- .
Fieger ended up nixing the request and the song appeared in the 1994 movie Reality Bites instead .
-LRB- thanks , Chris - Saint Louis , MO -RRB- In an interview with the Washington Post , Doug Fieger said : `` I was 25 when I wrote the song .
But the song was written from the perspective of a 14-year-old boy .
It 's just an honest song about a 14-year-old boy . ''
The Chicago DJ Steve Dahl -LRB- Of Disco demolition fame -RRB- did a parody of this during the Iran hostage crisis , changing Sharona to `` Ayatollah . ''
The single was a hit in Chicago , and The Knack sang it with Dahl at the International Amphitheaterin 1980 .
-LRB- thanks , Scott - chicago , IL -RRB- This was n't the only song on the album that was about Sharona and Fieger 's feelings for her .
The songs `` That 's What the Little Girls Do '' and '' -LRB- She 's So -RRB- Selfish '' were also inspired by her .
Doug Fieger of The Knack was the younger brother of famed attorney Geoffrey Fieger , who defended Dr. Jack Kervorkian .
In the US , this was the best-selling single of 1979 .
Doug Fieger wrote this song with Knack guitarist Berton Averre , who co-wrote many songs for the band with Fieger .
That 's Sharona Alperin on the cover of the single holding the Get The Knack album .
She posed for the art even though she and Doug Fieger were n't yet dating .
The album version runs 4:52 , but the single version was edited down to 3:58 .
The victim of this cut was Knack guitarist Berton Averre , whose much-admired solo was chopped .
This song returned to the UK singles chart in 2009 , peaking at # 59 thanks to its use in a TV advert for Oatibix .
Run-D.M.C. used the guitar riff for their 1986 song `` It 's Tricky . ''
The Rogue Traders UK # 33 hit `` Watching You '' in 2006 was based around this song 's melody .
Weird Al Yankovic did a parody of this called `` My Bologna . ''
It was the song that kickstarted his career in song parody .
He first recorded it while he was a student at California Polytechnic State University , and sent it to Dr. Demento who played it on his radio show .
Other parodies of the song include `` Ayatollah '' by the radio personality Steve Dahl , and `` Babylona '' by the parody band ApologetiX .
-LRB- thanks , Cliff - Burkesville , KY -RRB-
