After early previews of Channel Orange , journalists began to question whether some of the lyrics on this and other tracks were addressing a male object of love .
Ocean responded by blogging an open letter , in which he recounted his unrequited feelings for a man when he was 19 years old , citing it as his first true love .
Ocean also commented on writing for Channel Orange after years of emotional struggle following the experience , stating , `` I wrote to keep myself busy and sane .
I wanted to create worlds that were rosier than mine .
I tried to channel overwhelming emotions . ''
Ocean 's revelation of his past relationship with a man shed new light on this tale of adolescent love , which features such homoerotic lyrics as , `` You 're so buff and strong . ''
Asked by UK newspaper The Guardian why he used the word `` boy '' to describe his love interest , rather than falling back on the generic `` you , '' Ocean replied , shrugging : `` When you write a song like ` Forrest Gump , ' the subject ca n't be androgynous .
It requires an unnecessary amount of effort .
I do n't fear anybody at all .
So , to answer your question , yes , I could have easily changed the words .
But for what ?
I just feel like it 's just another time now .
I have no interest in contributing to that , especially with my art .
It 's the one thing that I know will outlive me and outlive my feelings .
It will outlive my depressive seasons . ''
The song title references the titular hero of the 1994 comic drama Forrest Gump .
Ocean plays on Forrest 's love of running when he sings of his love interest , `` You 're running on my mind boy . ''
Ocean performed this at the Grammy Awards in 2013 , where Channel Orange won for Best Urban Contemporary Album .
Chris Brown , who was also nominated for Fortune , was noticeably one of the few people still sitting down as Ocean headed to the stage to collect his prize .
A few weeks prior to the Grammys , they had a brawl outside a studio , during which either Brown or one of his entourage , allegedly described Ocean with a homophobic slur .
