This song finds Rocky spitting philosophical lyrics about fallen music legends , such as Michael Jackson and Kurt Cobain , who were driven mad by the pressures of fame .
It also finds the New York rapper admitting to his own dark thoughts .
`` Those are natural feelings that we all get sometimes .
You hurt so bad and you 're going through so much pain to the point where sometimes you do n't even wan na live anymore , '' he told MTV News .
`` That 's how a lot of people think , whether we 'd like to admit it or not and that 's all I was showcasing .
It was that emotion ... suicidal kinda emotions .
`` Rocky added that translating those lows into rhymes can sometimes be therapeutic .
`` I 'm not glorifying it at all , '' he said .
`` I 'm just basically telling you that sometimes I have suicidal thoughts .
And maybe I should seek help , or maybe it 's not that deep . ''
Working with Danger Mouse was a dream of Rocky 's in his teenage years when he was dealing drugs .
He told The Sun : `` I used to listen to Gnarls Barkley 's The Odd Couple when I was doing the drug thing .
Danger Mouse was my dream producer and he heard and welcomed me with open arms . ''
A$ AP Rocky and director Francesco Carrozzini recruited The Wire 's Michael K. Williams and supermodel Joan Smalls for the song 's music video .
Smalls explained to MTV News : `` Michael K. Williams and myself , we 're a couple .
We had a late night out and I find out something extremely shocking , and when we come back home , we start arguing and it just develops into something so tumultuous and intense that I let my rage take control of me . ''
That 's Rocky himself singing in the background .
He told Sway on MTV 's RapFix Live .
`` That was different for me .
It took me and Danger Mouse five days straight to make the beat from scratch and write the song .
When it was finished I felt like it was one of the best songs on the album besides ` Suddenly ' and ' 1 Train . ' ''
Brian `` Danger Mouse '' Burton provided the song 's haunting beat .
Danger Mouse is best known for being one half of Gnarls Barkley along with Cee-Lo Green .
The phoenix was a mythical Egyptian bird that burned itself to death on a pyre every 500 years and rose rejuvenated from the ashes .
Rocky explained to Rolling Stone that he titled the song after the cyclically regenerating winged creature of legend , `` because it 's talking about dying - but when a phoenix dies , it 's reborn from its own ashes .
I related to that . ''
The video 's moody storyline was co-written by the Italian actress Asia Argento , who is best known for starring alongside Vin Diesel in the 2002 action movie , xXx .
Argento has dabbled in music before appearing in Placebo frontman Brian Molko 's cover version of `` Je t ` aime ... moi non plus , '' as well as being part of the Legendary Tiger Man 's project Femina .
In May 2013 she released her debut album , entitled Total Entropy under Nuun Music .
