The first radio single from Taylor Swift 's fourth studio album , Red , was written by the singer with the Swedish hitmaking duo of Shellback and Max Martin .
Taylor told fans worldwide in a web-chat on August 13 , 2012 that the scornful yet fun song is about one of her former beaus and is what she refers to , in jest , as `` a really romantic song ... touching and sensitive ... to my lovely ex-boyfriend . ''
When asked whom the tune is about , she replied with a smile , `` I 'm trying not to be too cryptic with it , but I 'm trying not to give it all away . ''
As the lead single from Red , this song drew the spotlight back to the superstar with an intricately crafted piece of Pop featuring very light Country influences .
Taylor Swift lends the song brand appeal , and it falls in line with previously successful releases by the singer by focusing on the pains of a failed relationship .
Swift 's vocal delivery is understated , foregoing over-emotive flourishes so that it better connects with a teenage audience.The song mixes a linear progression with a very diverse assembly of structural elements , which creates a listening experience that is both easy to get into and consistently attention-grabbing .
An especially strong payoff is offered by the chorus , which features an extremely catchy melody and very powerful lyrics - over a third of the song 's playtime is devoted to the chorus .
The title is both clever and appears frequently throughout the song , making it easy for us to remember while also catching the eye of a casual listener .
Swift also wisely retreads very familiar thematic territory by focusing on a relationship , which allows her to further establish her musical identity while appealing to devoted fans .
The tight songwriting , universal lyrics , and increased focus on purer Pop stylings -LRB- to the neglect of her more Country-style tendencies -RRB- made this a strong , appealing introduction to Swift 's album .
The song was Swift 's first # 1 on the Hot 100 .
She had previously reached the # 2 spot with `` You Belong With Me '' in 2009 and `` Today Was a Fairytale '' in 2010 .
So what was the previous # 1 by a Country act prior to this song ?
There are two possible answers :1 -RRB- Carrie Underwood 's American Idol coronation song `` Inside Your Heaven '' topped the Hot 100 dated July 2 , 2005 .
However , Underwood 's label had n't yet started promoting her as a country artist and it only reached # 52 on Country Songs .2 -RRB- Lonestar 's `` Amazed '' spent 8 weeks at # 1 on Country Songs in 1999 and two weeks on top of the Hot 100 in 2000 .
The song 's music video was directed by Declan Whitebloom , of whom Swift has worked with on the visuals for both `` Mean '' and `` Ours . ''
It was shot with a Sony F65 Cinealta Camera and was the first music promo to be featured in 4K resolution .
Swift 's band was only told at the last minute that they 'd be performing in fuzzy animal costumes in the video .
`` All of the sudden , they wheel in their costume rack , full of animal costumes , and they were so mad , '' Swift recalled to MTV News .
`` It was hilarious .
They were so angry .
It took a couple hours , but they finally embraced it .
It ended up being absolutely hilarious ; they are really funny in that video .
They owned it . ''
Swift explained the Red album title relates to the intensity of her emotions during a series of failed relationships that were often very public .
`` All those emotions , '' she said , `` spanning from intense love , intense frustration , jealousy , confusion , in my mind , all those emotions are red .
There 's nothing in between ; there is nothing beige about any of those feelings . ''
The title of this song is a little cumbersome , and Swift said there were `` lots of discussions '' about what to call it .
She preferred `` We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together '' from the start , telling Esquire : `` It 's very final , it 's very aggressive , and it 's not subtle . ''
Taylor told Digital Spy that she wrote the song with Shellback and Max Martin , `` in 25 minutes . ''
The principal reason why Taylor chose this to be Red 's lead single was its catchy tune .
Picking that track `` jumped out to me , '' she told Radio.com .
`` I would play it for my friends and family , and they would come back a few days later singing it , word for word .
They could n't get it out of their heads . ''
Swift told US Elle that she writes about her personal relationships to feel better .
`` To me it 's just writing songs the way I always have , '' she said .
`` It 's me sitting on my bed feeling pain I did n't understand , writing a song , and understanding it better .
If people want to dissect the lyrics , that 's their right , but it 's all coming from the exact same place as where I started .
It 's just something I do to feel better . ''
The empowering kiss-off to an ex was inspired by an incident , when during a session in the studio with Max Martin and Johan Shellback , a friend of the singer 's former boyfriend happened to walk in .
Swift told ABC News ' Nightline : '' -LSB- My friend -RSB- starts talking about how he 's heard -LSB- my ex and I -RSB- were getting back together and that was not the case .
When he leaves , Max and Johan are like , ` So what 's the story behind that ? '
And so I start telling them the story of ` break up , get back together , break up , get back together , ' just , ugh , the worst . ''
`` Max says , ` This is what we 're writing ; we 're writing this song , ' '' continued Swift .
`` And I picked up the guitar and just started singing ` we are never . '
It just happened so fast .
It was so much fun . ''
`` We Are Never '' sold 623,000 units in its first week according to Nielsen SoundScan .
This gave Swift the record for the biggest digital sales week for a song by a woman and second-largest sales week overall behind Flo Rida 's `` Right Round , '' which debuted with 636,000 in February , 2009 .
This premiered at # 13 on the Country Songs chart , the highest debut by a female artist in the SoundScan era .
The song was Swift 's 46th Hot 100 entry and first # 1 - the most visits by an artist before achieving a chart-topper .
Dionne Warwick held the previous record having appeared on the 100 39 times before leading on her 40th try with `` Then Came You , '' with the Spinners , in 1974 .
The video was shot in one continuous take with no edits and features Swift in five different outfits , which required some very quick costume changes by the singer .
`` All modesty had to go out the window , '' Swift said to MTV News about her five furiously fast outfit switches .
`` All my clothes were put together with Velcro and snaps so that I could have three different outfits layered on top of each other . ''
`` The costume changes were really hectic , '' she continued . ''
-LSB- We did them -RSB- in real time ; it was crazy .
At one point , I had a breaking point . '
I ca n't do five costume changes , there 's not enough time ! '
but we ended up being able to do it . ''
Swift 's ex-love interest in the video is played by Canadian model-turned-actor Noah Mills -LRB- Sex and the City 2 -RRB- .
Mills told MTV News that he enjoyed creating his character from such lines as , `` And you would hide away and find your peace of mind with some indie record that 's much cooler than mine . ''
He said : `` You hear what the lyrics are saying and think , ` Okay , if you 're talking about this album you 're listening to that 's cooler than mine , I know that I 'm listening to some album and subliminally sending some messages that I 'm not in love with your music , ' so you pick that up and as the character you play it . ''
Swift came up with this break-up anthem to drive a former boyfriend `` crazy '' when he heard the tune played on the radio .
He 'd belittled her music , and Swift wanted to make the song as catchy as possible so its constant airplay would annoy him .
She explained to USA Today : '' -LRB- It 's -RRB- a definitive portrait of how I felt when I finally stopped caring what my ex thought of me .
-LRB- He -RRB- made me feel like I was n't as good or as relevant as these hipster bands he listened to ... So I made a song that I knew would absolutely drive him crazy when he heard it on the radio .
Not only would it hopefully be played a lot , so that he 'd have to hear it , but it 's the opposite of the kind of music that he was trying to make me feel inferior to . ''
Swift offers a sarcastic dismissal to her hipster ex when she sings : `` Hide away and find your peace of mind .
With some indie record that 's much cooler than mine . ''
She told The Guardian : `` That was the most important line of the song .
It was a relationship where I felt very critiqued and subpar .
He 'd listen to this music that nobody had heard of ... but as soon as anyone else liked these bands , he 'd drop them .
I felt that was a strange way to be a music fan .
And I could n't understand why he would never say anything nice about the songs I wrote or the music I made . ''
The song spent 9 consecutive weeks at # 1 on Billboard Country Singles , the most by a solo female artist in the history of the chart .
The record was previously held by Connie Smith 's `` Once a Day , '' which spent eight weeks at peak position in 1964 .
Swift 's run was the longest for any artist since David Houston stayed nine weeks with `` Almost Persuaded '' in 1966 .
The previous artist to have spent more than nine weeks at peak position on the country chart was Buck Owens , who led for 16 weeks in 1963-64 with `` Love 's Gon na Live Here . ''
Swift opened the Grammy Awards in 2013 with a performance of this song , changing the words in her vocal interlude to say that she 's `` busy opening the Grammy Awards . ''
She was dressed like a sexy ringleader and backed by a circus performance .
Once she took her seat in the audience , Taylor became the go-to cutaway , as she could be seen eagerly singing along to other performances throughout the show .
This song earned an entry in the 2014 edition of the Guinness Book of Records .
It took the title for the fastest-selling digital single after it reached the # 1 spot on iTunes just 50 minutes after its release.Taylor was also named in the book 's 2014 edition as the first solo female artist with two million-selling weeks on the US album chart since records began in 1991 .
