This Rock anthem was selected as the official song of London 's 2012 Summer Olympic Games .
The track was played throughout sports sessions at official venues for the games , such as when athletes enter and during the build-up to medal ceremonies .
Frontman Matt Bellamy said on the band 's website : `` It 's a huge honour to have the track chosen as such a major part of the London 2012 Olympic Games .
I wrote it with the Games in mind as it expresses a sense of conviction and determination to win . ''
The song was debuted on BBC Radio 1 's Zane Lowe show on June 27 , 2012 .
The Muse trio had already participated in the build up to the sporting event , having carried the Olympic torch through their hometown of Teignmouth in southwest England as part of the flame 's 8,000-mile journey to the games .
Drummer Dominic Howard admitted to NME that , `` it 's a pretty weird song for the Olympics to choose . ''
He added : `` It 's cool that they think the song can represent the enormity of the Olympics .
It takes you back to Gladiator-style Olympics . ''
Bellamy told Rolling Stone that the themes of The 2nd Law were inspired by a BBC broadcast that he watched in 2011 , where a panelist noted that `` The laws of physics say that an economy based on endless growth is unsustainable . ''
Said the frontman : `` Everyone is obsessed with constant , unchecked growth , and no one is pointing out that we might be maxing out .
` Survival ' tunes into the insanity of that . ''
During his acceptance speech as he collected the gong for Best Act In The World Today at the 2012 Q Awards , Matt Bellamy said : `` We 're as surprised as you are that we passed off a song about a survivalist psychopath on the Olympics.Later he clarified his comment to Q magazine : `` Now it 's all over , we can say that the song was really written about survivalists , '' he said .
`` There was this TV show called Doomsday Preppers , which was all about these crazy survivalists who think the world 's gon na end .
The song is basically about that .
So I was just making a comment that I was as surprised as everybody else was , that that song got selected for the Olympics . ''
Bellamy told Lowe that he had been approached to write a song about the Olympics in 2011 , but the project `` went away . ''
`` Then when we were asked to play the ending ceremony , '' he continued , `` the song had developed so we got the Olympic people in to hear it and they said they 'd love to use it as the official tune . ''
Muse was the first band to sell out the rebuilt Wembley Stadium , which in its earlier incarnation had been a venue for the 1948 Olympics .
They performed at their June 16 , 2007 concert to a sell-out crowd of 90,000 fans .
The album title refers to the second law of thermodynamics , which states that because energy is naturally expended and consumed and no new energy produced , unlimited growth is ` unsustainable ' However , humanity seem to be going directly against that .
In the context of The 2nd Law 's worldwide catastrophe scenario , this song takes on a greater significance than winning an Olympic medal .
Bellamy told NME : `` It 's getting into the brutality of what that is , to survive against whatever . ''
The over-the-top rock anthem features swelling strings , battle drums and a choir .
`` We had that idea lying around and we enhanced it , adding more lyrics , a choir and making the arrangement more grandiose , '' Bellamy told the Metro newspaper .
`` I would n't describe it as a joke but we were definitely having fun with it .
It 's certainly melodramatic , Nietzschean , and pushing the outer limits of human madness .
Maybe that paradox only works live . ''
The song , along with another Muse track , '' Isolated System , '' were used for the soundtrack of the apocalyptic horror film World War Z .
The Brad Pitt starring flick is an adaptation of a novel of the same name by Max Brooks .
`` I was reading World War Z when I made the album - and I loved it - it had an influence -LSB- on -RSB- songs like ` Survival ' , like ` Isolated System ' , '' Matt Bellamy told Absolute Radio .
`` I was thinking about this kind of insane survival situation , '' he continued , `` this real bleak kind of apocalyptic scenario - when I was making the album , which I tend to do anyway when I 'm making albums .
So it 's a really great fit , it 's a lovely film .
Well maybe lovely 's not the right word - it 's a real , like , thrill ride , total edge of your seat - got some real scary moments . ''
