This is the song that introduced Primal Scream to a mass market as one of the most innovative UK acts of the early '90s by merging Rock music and Dance music .
Primal Scream are a UK rock group formed in Glasgow in 1984 by Bobby Gillespie -LRB- vocals -RRB- , the only constant member of the band .
They evolved from a metal band to a dance-fusion act and enjoyed their greatest success with their 1991 album Screamadelica , which won the first ever Mercury Prize , a music award given annually for the best British album of the previous 12 months .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England , for all above -RRB- Asked by NME how all the samples for this song and the other Screamadelica tracks were cleared , Gillespie gave a curious response .
`` I do n't know what you 're talking about , '' said the singer grinning .
`` Imagine if we had n't got the Fonda one though .
We would n't be sat here now .
I do n't know where we 'd be but we would not be sat here talking to you .
The gods were smiling on us that day . ''
This song was originally called `` I 'm Losing More Than I 'll Ever Had '' and it became a hit in the UK after being re-mixed by DJ Andy Weatherall , who was a friend of the band .
Weatherall completely reworked the song , adding a heavy bass groove echoing dub reggae , and a drum loop from an Italian bootleg mix of Edie Brickell 's `` What I Am , '' deleting most of the original instrumentation -LRB- even the layers of guitars -RRB- , and interjecting layers of samples .
Among the samples included are the central introductory sample from the Peter Fonda B-movie The Wild Angels and also a sample of Gillespie singing a line from Robert Johnson 's `` Terraplane Blues . ''
Gillespie recalled in NME February 5 , 2011 : `` We just did ` Loaded ' as an experiment .
There was nothing in it for us anyway , so we had nothing to lose , you know ?
There was no game plan with Weatherall at all .
We did n't think ` We 're going to get famous and rich ' or ` We 're gon na get a hit . '
It was just us trying to make a record that could ply in this scene and that people could dance to .
But I remember when we finished it sounded f -- ing amazing .
We 'd done it . ''
