This is a cover of a song that was originally recorded by the American soul group Sonia Dada .
Released in 1992 under the title of `` You Do n't Treat Me No Good , '' the song was a # 1 hit in Australia , spending four weeks at the top of the ARIA Charts .
It did not chart in the United States .
Country music artist Jerrod Niemann 's version was his first release on the Sea Gayle label , a sister label of Arista Nashville , as well as his fourth single release overall .
The song was Niemann 's first Top 10 country hit .
He discussed the public 's reaction to his cover with The Boot : `` One of the reasons I recorded it was because I could n't get it out of my head since I was a child .
It was ironic that I heard it an entire summer around a swimming pool ... which is really cool .
Theoretically , it 's a sad song , but with a double negative of treating no good no more , which means you really treat me good , right ?
-LSB- laughs -RSB- I love being able to hear a song that makes you want to turn up the radio and roll down the windows .
Obviously , I 've never had any of my own music do that to me -LSB- laughs -RSB- , so it 's nice to hear that , especially when you do get your feelings hurt .
If you can tap your foot while you 're crying , why not ?
It has been amazing to see what lyrics , melody , instrumentation or even your own interpretation of a song that 's already been out by somebody else can change your career .
When you 've been heard in a way that everybody 's been kind enough to respond to the song -LSB- that 's -RSB- what is really mindblowing for me and all the guys involved . ''
This was the first Country Songs chart-topper to reinvent a pop or rock song since Blake Shelton 's update of Michael Buble 's `` Home '' reached # 1 on the July 12-19 , 2008 charts .
The repetitive title alludes to the amount of times Jerrod repeated himself in the process of recording the song .
He explained to Great American Country that he was determined to sing all nine parts himself , instead of using any studio musicians : `` There was nine vocal parts , and it was very challenging .
-LSB- I -RSB- actually recorded eight parts the first night , and the only part left was this real low bass part .
And my voice was , for lack of a better word , shredded from singing the other eight parts .
So me and -LSB- a buddy -RSB- walked down to the Tin Roof in Nashville and in the name of art , properly medicated the vocal cords .
Goodness gracious , when I woke up the next morning I sounded like a hybrid of the low guy in the Oak Ridge Boys and Grape Ape ! ''
The song climbed to the top of the Country singles chart the same week as Niemann 's maiden Arista Nashville set , Judge Jerrod & the Hung Jury , was leading the July 31st Country Albums listing .
This meant that Niemann became the first artist since Darius Rucker to lead both lists with debut # 1 titles .
Rucker 's `` Do n't Think I Do n't Think About It '' and Learn to Live concurrently ruled each ranking during the first two weeks of October 2008 .
