This is a track from New Jersey Rockers My Chemical Romance 's fourth album , Danger Days : The True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys .
The band debuted the song during a secret show at the Roxy in Los Angeles on July 31 , 2010 .
Toro told Spin that he and his bandmates met up with MC5 frontman Wayne Kramer and played him this track .
`` We actually got to play that song for Wayne Kramer -LSB- of the MC5 -RSB- in our pre-production , which was awesome .
He wanted to come by and visit us , and we said , ` Hey , can we play you this song ?
I lyric-check you guys in it .
You know your band is a huge inspiration for our sound on this record . ' ''
The song 's opening features a vibe similar to Judas Priest 's `` Living After Midnight . ''
`` That 's my favorite Priest song , '' front man Gerard Way told Spinner UK .
The song was originally titled `` Death Before Disco . ''
Way discussed the influence of '80s rockers including fellow New Jersey artist Bruce Springsteen on Danger Days : True Lives Of The Fabulous Killjoys with Spin magazine : `` Aesthetically or fictionally , the album has these feelings of being like a 15-year-old kid at the Jersey Shore , trying to win a Motley Crue mirror or an Iron Maiden hat , from that era when heavy metal was yet to become hair rock.It 's also about the Boss - he was my first show - but the Boss before the really big hits .
That notion that if you 're from Jersey , you want to get the hell out of it .
I love Jersey , but that was my goal .
And to me , the music of Springsteen was always about that .
It 's just about of getting up and blowing out of town . ''
This straight-forward punk tune features a shout-out to the MC5 's 1969 proto-punk classic `` Kick Out The Jams . ''
`` This was the cream of the crop of the stripped-down style we were going for , '' guitarist Ray Toro told Spin Magazine .
`` And just the spirit and energy of the MC5 -- that fuels this song . ''
Toro explained the song 's meaning to Spin : `` That song is truly about the power of working class rock 'n' roll versus the power of fame .
It 's working class rock versus Chanel f -- king handbags and red carpets and all that bulls -- t. '' Way commented to Rolling Stone regarding this song prior to the album 's release : `` It brings back , lyrically , some of that wonderful fiction from the first album .
I think we wrote our ` Born To Run , ' and I 'm so amped about that .
It 's a completely different sound for the band -- it 's like an anti-party song that you can party to .
I ca n't wait for people to hear it .
To me , it 's the greatest song we 've ever written -- it 's my favorite MCR song . ''
The concept of Danger Days : True Lives Of The Fabulous Killjoys is based around the lives of the `` Fabulous Killjoys , '' in the setting of California in the year 2019 .
The band 's alter-egos are the four Killjoys with Gerard Way adopting the persona of `` Party Poison . ''
My Chemical Romance scrapped much of the first incarnation of Danger Days after a year 's recording and started over with the help of Black Parade producer Rob Cavallo .
This song was written during the earlier sessions but Eri , the Japanese woman that speaks at the beginning , was added later on .
