Songwriter Skip Ewing loves to study poetry in any form - classical poetry , new poetry , and just hearing the sounds of words and the way people have put things together .
So when co-writer Jim Weatherly had a song idea of `` wishing on my star , but this is the wrong star , '' little sparks began to fly inside Skip 's mind .
`` I said , ` Ooo , I love that ! ' ''
reveals Skip .
And he went straight to the piano .
They did n't have the title for the song yet , but the concept began taking shape .
`` We sat and talked about what it would be like to realize that you 're just not getting it right .
What 's the deal ?
So that 's the thing .
Do n't look at yourself , blame it on a star .
You 're wishing on the wrong star .
That 's where that came from . ''
There is a lot more to the children 's song , `` Twinkle , Twinkle Little Star '' than you may know .
For example , the actual poem , as written by Jane Taylor in 1806 , is called simply `` The Star , '' and contains 5 stanzas , not just the two that we are taught in kindergarten.Throughout this song the melody for `` Twinkle , Twinkle Little Star '' can be heard if you listen for it .
Skip and Jim chose a very subtle approach to it , and it 's so subtle that many people do n't even realize it 's there .
`` I love Bach , and I love Fugues , '' says Skip , `` and I love all those kinds of things .
So just for the fun of it , almost as a Fugue idea , I took the melody of ` Twinkle , Twinkle Little Star . '
It is not played or sung in the song , but it can be played throughout the whole song .
Most people do n't know that .
Now when I play it out , I usually just kind of show that , just as a fun musical .
I love to not necessarily hide stuff in there , I love it if you can see the reflection , but also down in the well sometimes , ` Oh my gosh , look at this , down there - there 's gold coins down there in the bottom of the well . ' ''
By way of example , his sound bite can be heard in the full Skip Ewing interview .
Due to his incredible songwriting ability and his belief that `` there is music in all words , in all sounds , '' Maya Angelou approached Skip about writing together .
And it 's a very big deal .
Says Skip : `` She has n't worked with anyone else , or with only a couple of people .
And you can not imagine how honored I was for her to even ask , let alone for us to be sitting and working on some of her things , both coming up with new things , and also taking some of her classic ideas and taking them and working them into a song in order to honor her poetry .
I mean , just the whole scope of it .
It 's amazing . ''
Skip remembers the day he went to Jim Weatherly 's house and wrote this song : `` Jim 's house was filled with antiques .
And this made me think about classical music -- do not ask me why .
-LRB- laughing -RRB- He had an old piano , and I was talking with him about my love for changes .
I love to talk about music in a way where it 's almost as though you can see and feel and smell and touch things in music , if you allow yourself to .
Like , for instance , if you watch the movie Out Of Africa , there 's a piece while the plane is flying over the Serengeti , where it 's done ... it 's just brilliant , because the music is so grounded .
And he took and he made the low end of that music just solid and stable and beautiful , rolling like the land over which the airplane was flying , and left all the room in the sky for the airplane .
That 's what that felt like when I watched that .
And I just thought he was so brilliant .
It 's those kinds of things that I love to think about .
Well , it can also be done in a very simple way .
And that is what I said to Jim , ` You know what , the melodies that I would have loved to have written are things like ` Twinkle , Twinkle , Little Star . '
They 're so simple everybody remembers them immediately . '
And melody is so powerful .
And I said something to the effect , ` It 's like the fiber of things that we do . '
I mean , we are product , our musical thinking , is products of everything we 've ever heard .
Our melodic understanding , our harmonic understanding , the way we are able to put chords together , I mean , every guitar player remembers when they learned like an A Major 7 or something , and suddenly their world opened up .
That kind of a thing . ''
Clay Aiken performed this song on the 2003 season of American Idol to a standing ovation by judges Paula , Randy , and guest judge Olivia Newton-John .
Simon thought it was `` sweet '' but said it sounded like a repeat performance from the previous week .
Skip did n't catch the performance , but is happy that the song is still so well received .
