This was the third single from Brooklyn-based indie rock band The National 's fourth album , Boxer .
The song was written by guitarist Bryce Dessner and features a horn fanfare penned by Padma Newsome , from sister band Clogs .
Dessner told The San Francisco Chronicle about the song 's original concept : `` Conceptually I said I would love to write a song that was based on a certain polyrhythm , the four-over-three pattern , which is what you hear in the piano .
It 's something I , personally , have never heard in rock music .
What 's interesting is the song sounds like it 's in four , but it 's in three .
The harmonies and the way I 'm playing the piano music are actually incredibly simple -- sort of like ` Chopsticks ' simple -- with this really weird rhythm .
At the end we said , Oh , would n't it be cool if we had a horn fanfare , so Padma wrote this very Steve Reichian minimalist horn fanfare . ''
An instrumental version of the song was used for a Barak Obama campaign video during his 2008 United States presidential campaign .
`` We were a little bewildered , because the song is not patriotic by any means , '' Berninger told The Guardian .
By discarding the vocals , the producers transformed the song into an optimistic advert full of smiling people holding `` hope '' and `` change '' signs .
Guitarist Aaron Dessner discussed with Q magazine Obama 's use of the song .
He said : `` we 've never met Obama but we had a few people in their administration who were fans .
When they first asked permission to use Fake Empire we wondered , Do they know it 's about how f -- ed up America is and wanting to leave ?
Later these right-wing bloggers criticised Obama for using an ` unpatriotic ' song . ''
The song is a commentary on a generation lost to disillusion and apathy .
Vocalist Matt Berringer explained to The Quietus that it is about `` where you ca n't deal with the reality of what 's really going on , so let 's just pretend that the world 's full of bluebirds and ice skating . ''
The National made their television debut on July 24 , 2007 , performing this song on the Late Show with David Letterman .
