This slice of Blues-Rock was written by Little Big Town 's Karen Fairchild and Jimi Westbrook with Nashville songwriter Natalie Hemby and Australian Country musician Jedd Hughes .
Fairchild told The Boot : `` We like music that feels a little bit raw .
We 've been singing together so long that we like to match the vocals with some roughness in the tracking , and also in melody choices .
Natalie is great at that and so is Jedd .
They 're so much fun to write with .
` Self Made ' was his title . ''
The song was the last one laid down for Tornado .
`` I 'll never forget recording ` Self Made , ' Jimi Westbrook recalled to The Boot .
`` It will forever be a marked moment because you could 've cut the energy with a knife .
It was such excitement .
Down to Jay -LRB- Joyce , producer -RRB- standing on top of the B-3 , screaming at the top of his lungs , counting everybody in !
It was just one of those musical moments that I 'll always remember . ''
There was a special sense of urgency when recording the track that was felt by everyone involved .
`` During the session our guitarist Johnny -LRB- Duke -RRB- asked Jay what advice he had for him , because there 's some amazing guitar work on that song , '' recalled Fairchild .
`` And Jay 's , like , ` Release your inner monkey , man ! '
He was standing on top of the speakers wearing big Chanel sunglasses - I do n't know where he got them -- holding a bullhorn .
On the track that made the album , you can hear him counting off : ` One , two , three - get it , Johnny ! '
Jay said his heart was racing when we finished . ''
LBT 's Kimberly Schlapman said regarding the song 's lyrical content to The Boot : `` Everybody can identify with working hard for something .
Unless you 've been handed everything on a silver platter .
Most of us have had to work really , really hard to get where we are . ''
Phillip Sweet recalled : `` When Karen and Jimi first played us that song , I instantly gravitated towards it because I love what it said : ` Born a survivor , like father , like gun . '
It was just cool . ''
