The opening track of American Heavy Metal band Machine Head 's seventh full-length studio album Unto The Locust is a three part sonata .
It consists of : -LRB- I -RRB- Sangre Sani -LRB- Blood Saint -RRB- -LRB- II -RRB- I Am Hell and -LRB- III -RRB- Ashes To The Sky .
Rob Flynn told the story of the song in an interview with I Heart Guitar Blog 's Peter Hodgson : `` We actually attempted writing in November of 2009 and nothing much came out of it .
The actual beginning of ' I Am Hell ' came out of it , but it was more just a symbolic moment for us , like , ` Wow , we 're really moving on from The Blackening . '
I wrote the end outro riff while I was in Norway , the tremolo picking -LRB- sings riff -RRB- , again geeking out on classical .
And then for a while that song just kinda hung around with those two parts connected with nothing in the middle .
That intro had been on a few different versions and I had written that guitar melody probably around the same time as I 'd written the very beginning , and I had always heard it as this a capella thing with all these layers and all these different vocals , and I thought , ` Man , if I can ever get a goddamn song around this it 's gon na be really cool ! '
But for about a year , a good year , it did n't materialize .
I just kept those riffs because I liked them and they were really cool , but I did n't have anything else to go around it .
We rarely played it at practice .
At one point it was actually the beginning to ` Who We Are . '
Then about three weeks before we went in to record the album I was demoing a bunch of songs because I was going to play stuff for the label back in New York , and the Pro Tools rig went down and I was like , ` F -- k ! '
I was super-pissed .
So I sat there and I was like , ` Y' know what ?
I 'm just going to play guitar and see if I can write . '
So I started messing around with ideas , and I stumbled on that trash riff , and then I thought , ` Maybe if I take that end part and use it as a chorus ... ' And just the whole thing , in 45 minutes I wrote the rest of the song .
I brought it to the dudes and they were like , ` Holy s -- t ! ' ''
Speaking to Sonic Excess magazine , guitarist Phil Demmel discussed the lyrical themes that he and vocalist Robb Flynn came up with for the record .
He explained : `` The first thing I approached with Robb ... I 've always thought ... Well , I come from a really descriptive writing style .
Robb is more personal , more first and third person .
I 'm more descriptive .
So , I thought of this , maybe taking the pages out of a pyromaniac 's diary , as he 's learning and the sickness is taking him over ; how it kind of grows with him , and how he becomes a murderer and maniac .
It 's something we started researching a little bit .
We found out that women are actually the most dangerous , because their crimes are , more often than not , crimes of passion .
So , he took it from this female perspective .
`` Demmel added that this three-parter is `` the pyromaniac song that I was talking about . ''
