Songwriter/keyboardist Ben Romans told us : `` This is a song that actually came right before the record .
And I remember it was one of those weird melody things .
I have a studio in Boston and I kept hearing this melody , and I had to pull over when I was singing in the car .
But fortunately I did n't forget it .
What 's great about that song is that was one of the first writing sessions I did with Kyle -LRB- Patrick , lead singer -RRB- .
And already he was very , very strong with the lyrics , and it was just really pleasant .
We just sat down and kind of beat the song around until it became what it was .
But I enjoy the simplicity of the song .
It 's really hard to write simple .
I think it 's harder for our band write simple than complex .
Look at like an author like Hemingway , just such a simple , simple writer .
And I think that takes a lot of craft .
It 's always been about being able to shape these common phrases into a collage that touches somebody somehow .
So I really enjoyed that .
At that point in the band I wanted to do something like that , a little more dramatic .
And then production-wise , we got to be a little more experimental .
It 's very subtle , but we have drums , we have like a harmonium playing and all kinds of interesting instruments with the arrangements and stuff .
We enjoyed that , too . ''
Regarding the video for this song , Ben says it 's special to the band , because it shows their real personalities more than most of their videos .
He explains , `` I think a lot of the videos before were kind of concept videos , and we wanted to just do one where it just kind of went hand-in-hand with the song and captured more of the performance than anything .
We shot it -- I remember we did the Boston Music Awards and we shot it the next day early , early in the morning .
It was freezing .
We were on Commonwealth Avenue in Boston .
It has like this street mall in the middle of it .
A lot of really pretty statues and all kinds of stuff like that .
So we just kind of set up our stuff and went for it .
We had two friends of ours that are really talented folks in L.A. , they 're a duo , and basically one of them is really good at editing , one of them is really good at directing .
They 've been working together for a while , so we invited them to come out and do it .
And we just did it in kind of two locations , and they did their thing , and I think they did a really nice job .
But doing that and capturing more ... the band 's always been into timeless kind of things with the songs or film .
So it was really nice to just feel that way about the way it looked , as well as the way it sounded .
Let 's put it this way : I watch that video and I feel like I 'm actually watching the guys I hang out with every day .
That 's a pretty good representation of the band . ''
-LRB- Check out the full Ben Romans interview . -RRB-
