This track from English indie rock act Florence + the Machine 's second album finds main woman Florence Welch singing about water becoming a deity that must be appeased .
She explained the background to the song in an interview with NME : `` I was kind of fascinated by those stories about children who are swept out to sea , and their parents go in after them and try to rescue them and it sounds horrible , but because the children are smaller , they get swept in unharmed whereas the parents are drowned .
It 's like the sea demands this sacrifice .
There 's that line in the song : ` They took your loved ones and returned them in exchange for you but would you have it any other way ? '
And you probably would n't . ''
This song also references the death of British novelist Virginia Woolf , who drowned herself by walking into a river with her coat pockets filled with stones .
Florence was inspired by a family visit to Charleston , a country house , which was a frequent meeting place for the early 20th century Bloomsbury group of writers , artists and philosophers of which Woolf was a core member .
`` We got there too early , but they let us into the gardens , and then we ate the apples off the trees , '' Florence recalled to NME .
`` It just seemed like a really amazing breakfast in this really amazing place .
And then I was just thinking about her death .
That 's always been such a strong image : going to the river with your pockets full of stones . ''
The song is titled after one of Mexican artist Frida Kahlo 's most famous paintings , in which she 's depicted lying in her bath surrounded by surreal , nightmarish imagery .
Florence told NME : `` A lot of the time when I 'm writing , things will just ... appear .
I was writing the song and this book on symbolism was lying around , and it had that painting on it .
It 's nice to mix the ordinary with the ` extraordinary . '
`` Another Kahlo painting , `` Sandías con leyenda : Viva la vida '' -LRB- `` Watermelons with legend : The life lives '' -RRB- was the inspiration for the title of Coldplay 's single and album `` Viva La Vida . ''
There is a recurring water imagery running throughout Ceremonials .
Florence explained to NME : `` I am obsessed with drowning .
It 's about succumbing and being completely overwhelmed by something that 's bigger than everything .
I think it comes from being in love for the first time , '' she continued .
`` Like totally and utterly in love .
Like first 17-year-old love .
I remember falling in love with this boy - who was in a band , obviously - and having the first glimpse he might like me too .
I had to go on a family holiday for two weeks .
I spent the entire time sat at the bottom of the swimming pool screaming at the top of my voice .
I just wanted to be somewhere that completely encapsulated me where I could just thrash and scream . ''
