This power pop ballad about a couple who sleep beside each other but feel `` 10,000 miles apart '' is a track from Barbadian recording artist Rihanna 's fifth studio album , Loud .
Rihanna explained the meaning of the song to Capital FM : `` It 's talking about being this close to someone yet feeling so far away , like falling out of love . ''
The Nivea company helped pay for the video in exchange for using the song in its commercials .
After the darker sounds of Rihanna 's previous album Rated R , which she recorded in the wake of her former boyfriend Chris Brown 's violent assault on her , Loud generally has more upbeat sounds .
However , this is one of the slower tracks the Bajan singer recorded for the album .
Rihanna explained to UK radio station 95.8 Capital FM : `` The ballads on this album are really special .
I did n't want to just put a bunch of ballads on the album , I actually wanted to keep it minimal with slow records .
But there are really two powerful ballads .
One is called ` Straight Up Beautiful ' and the other one is called ` California King Bed , ' which is one of my favorite songs on the album .
It 's probably going to be the biggest song on the album . ''
At the beginning of March 2011 , Rihanna asked fans to help her select her fourth single from Loud via twitter .
They were requested to choose from `` California King Bed , '' `` Cheers -LRB- Drink To That -RRB- , '' Man Down or `` Fading '' .
The most popular choice proved to be this ballad , which was then released as the next single from the album .
The song 's music video was shot in one day on a Hollywood stage in West Hollywood and is set mainly in a bedroom , but also on a tropical sandy beach .
The director was Anthony Mandler , who is a regular collaborator of Rihanna .
He told MTV News : `` I think the song and the theme of this song , she wanted to obviously show a softer side , a lighter side , one that 's caught in maybe a tumultuous relationship .
But not let the tumultuous relationship dominate the visual , really counterbalance it with tension-filled chaotic beauty . ''
