This was the first release of a new Michael Jackson song following his death .
It is the radio single from a two-disc album of music inspired by the Michael Jackson 's This Is It movie , which chronicles the King of Pop 's final days rehearsing for his comeback concerts in London 's O2 arena before his passing .
The song was only released to radio , and was n't made available to buy or download as a single release .
John McClain , co-producer of the album said : `` This song only defines , once again , what the world already knows - that Michael is one of God 's greatest gifts . ''
A spokesman for Jackson 's estate said : `` The song was picked because the lyrics were appropriate because of the name Michael gave his tour .
We are thrilled to present this song in Michael 's voice for the first time . ''
A producer named Michael Jonzun filed a lawsuit in Massachusetts federal court , claiming he helped remake `` I Never Heard '' into this song .
According to the suit , filed in October 2012 , Jonzun owns one-third of the tune and is owed at least $ 24 Million for his work so he 's suing .
Paul Anka responded by telling TMZ that until he was given details of the suit , he had never even heard the name Michael Jonzun before .
Therefore any claims Jonzun owns a portion of `` This Is It '' are `` BS . ''
The song features backing vocals by Michael 's brothers , the Jacksons .
This string-backed ballad was reportedly written by Jackson in 1983 under the title of `` I Never Heard . ''
It was co-written by former '50s teen idol Paul Anka , whose 1957 chart-topper `` Diana '' was one of the biggest hits of the decade .
The tale of unrequited love was intended for inclusion on Anka 's duets album Walk a Fine Line , but the pair fell out , and Jackson took the master tapes before Anka got them back .
The ballad was eventually recorded in 1991 by Latin freestyle and R&B singer Safire , -LRB- `` Thinking of You '' -RRB- , however her version has partially different lyrics .
When Anka was not contacted about the release of the Jackson single , which originally credited the Billie Jean singer as the sole songwriter , he threatened to sue .
However , the situation was quickly resolved , with the administrators of Jackson 's estate acknowledging Anka 's work and agreeing to give him a 50 percent publishing cut .
Jackson 's original recording was found in a box of tapes with only his voice and a piano accompaniment .
A full arrangement including strings , newly recorded backing vocals from Jackson 's brothers and finger-click percussion were added by McClain for the 2009 version .
