In an audio interview with vocalist Ronnie James Dio he explained that this song is about a man who is addicted to the Bible Black , a book of sinister scriptures , which goes on to destroy him .
Guitarist Tony Iommi admitted to Billboard magazine that the song 's animated music video rubbed him the wrong way .
He explained : `` I think it ' bloody awful , to be honest .
It looks like Casper the Ghost or something .
We did n't have anything to do with it ; that was sort of just presented to us , really .
I 'd have thought it could be done better than that , but that 's just my opinion , and I 'm just one of four . ''
The album artwork is adapted from a painting by Norwegian artist Per Qyvind Haagensen 's entitled `` Satan . ''
Butler told Justin Donnelly that the artwork does n't sit comfortably with him .
He explained : `` The record company found that image for us .
I think Iommi and Dio quite liked it .
I was n't that happy with it , but then what can I say ?
It 's a majority rules within this band , and I was outvoted It 's a bit too satanic looking for me , but it is what it is . ''
This was one of the first songs written for the album .
Dio explained that it established a tone for the rest of the LP .
`` When you start off with a blockbuster like that , it makes the rest of the album so much easier because it gives you a benchmark to measure the other songs against . ''
In an interview by Justin Donnelly posted on his MySpace site , bassist Geezer Butler explained the album title : `` Everybody was asking me if I had any ideas for the title of the album .
So I got a few titles together , and that was the one that everybody seemed to like .
So you can say that I was the one responsible for coming up with The Devil You Know .
The meaning behind the title is really quite simple .
Everybody still calls us and sees us as Black Sabbath .
So even though we call ourselves Heaven & Hell , we 're still very much the devil you know in the sense that we 're still Black Sabbath .
That 's the story behind that . ''
The artwork features the addition of the numbers 25 and 41 , which Butler was responsible for on either side of the band 's familiar winged demon logo on the front cover .
Butler explained to Justin Donnelly : `` We 've had the winged demon logo for a long time , and the record company wanted to use that logo once again on the new album .
So I thought that rather than do the same thing once again , I decided that we needed to do something a little different .
So I came up with a verse from the bible .
It 's from the gospel according to Matthew , chapter twenty-five , verse forty-one .
The verse goes , ` Then He will also say to those on His left , ` Depart from Me , accursed ones , into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels ! '
It 's about those who sit at the left hand side of God who are cast down into hell .
That 's all . ''
