This is the title track from the debut album by Black Country Communion , an Anglo/American rock supergroup featuring vocalist/bassist Glenn Hughes -LRB- Deep Purple , Black Sabbath , Trapeze -RRB- , drummer Jason Bonham -LRB- Led Zeppelin -RRB- , keyboardist Derek Sherinian -LRB- Dream Theater -RRB- and blues rock guitarist Joe Bonamassa .
This track opens the album with a bang and is the heaviest thing Hughes had done in long time .
He told Metal Express Radio it was a real statement of intent .
Said Hughes : `` It 's a welcome back to the Rock format for me .
If you drop the needle onto Track 1 it gives you a real sense of where you 're going on the ride with Black Country ... ' I am a messenger , this is my prophecy .
I 'm going back to the Black Country ' .
It 's a statement , the planting of a flag saying ` We 're here and this is who we are . ' ''
Black Country was cut in just four days , with very little overdubbing .
Hughes told Spin Magazine : `` I think the greatest records we 've ever heard , from Zeppelin to Purple to Sabbath to The Who , were all recorded in the studio live . ''
Glenn Hughes explained to Norway 's Metal Express Radio how the quartet ended up playing together .
Said the singer : `` Joe Bonamassa and I became really good friends about four years ago .
He was a fan of my music but I did n't know too much about Joe .
I started to hang out with Joe and we started to write some songs and Joe started to become more and more popular .
I think Joe was secretively plotting something and we ended up putting the band together towards the end of last year .
It 's now almost a year later and the album is almost out and a lot of hard work has gone into creating it .
All that hard work is paying off and we 're all so proud of this album . ''
Both this song and the band 's name refer to `` The Black Country , '' a nickname for the English West Midlands conurbation , covering the Birmingham / Wolverhampton area , where both Hughes and Bonham were raised .
Hughes told Nightwatcher 's House of Rock why this contains some of his favorite lyrics from the album : `` Because I 'm throwing down that , ' I am the messenger , this is my prophecy ... I 'm going back to the Black Country . '
When I sing this , it means I 'm going back to the core of my being , where I was born , in the Black Country.The Black Country , for all intents and purposes , means the birthplace of hard rock .
Purple , Zeppelin , Judas Priest , all these bands were born there .
So I 'm really . .
`` I speak to the millions , from city to shire ... We come from the heartland ... We walk through the fire ... We rise to the measure ... A line in the sand ... It 's cold on the mountain ... And this is our land ... '' I 'm getting chill bumps , because I 'm really standing up and planting the flag of a rock n ' roll band .
I 've never wrote a lyric so forged in granite before .
That is rock . ''
