This is the latest Paul McCartney song whose title mentions a bird - the magpie is a bird found mostly in European countries , which is similar to crows and jays .
Other winged creature Macca titles include `` Blackbird '' for the Beatles ' White Album , `` Bluebird '' for Wings ' 1973 LP Band on the Run and `` Jenny Wren '' for the former Beatle 's 2005 solo set Chaos and Creation in the Backyard .
McCartney told The Sun November 28 , 2008 : `` I 've always liked birds .
It 's a theme of mine .
I think they 're symbolic of freedom , of flying away .
As a kid , I was a keen ornithologist and had a little pocket book , the Observer 's Book Of Birds .
I lived on the outskirts of Liverpool and could walk just a mile to be in quite deep countryside . ''
The tabloid press have been quick to look for references in the album 's lyrics to Sir Paul 's former wife Heather Mills .
For instance it has been claimed that this simple acoustic song 's title is a reference to Ms. Mills and her sister Fiona , trying to squeeze hundreds of millions of pounds out of the former Beatle in the divorce case .
In an article in the Daily Mail it was claimed that McCartney named the song as a dig at the sisters as magpies are known for their love of shiny trinkets and jewelry , which they take for their nests .
An alternative interpretation of the song 's name is based on the fact that Heather and Fiona grew up in Newcastle , in the North East of England .
The city 's football club is nicknamed The Magpies because of the black and white football strip their players wear .
At the end of the song , a little girl says , `` I want to play piano . ''
That 's McCartney 's daughter , Beatrice , who was in the recording studio at the time .
-LRB- thanks , Jk - Elmwood Park , IL -RRB- This song includes the expression `` one for sorrow , two for joy , three for a girl , four for a boy . ''
McCartney told The Sun that the only thing he 's superstitious about is magpies .
He explained : `` Living in the country , I see a lot of them .
You see one and you spit or salute .
I happen to spit .
I love it when you see two for joy .
I do n't shoot or catch them like a lot of people .
They 're not supposed to be good for other songbirds and a lot of keen gardeners do n't like them , but I do .
I 've got lots .
To me , it 's double joy or triple joy .
I 'm very inspired on a spring morning if I see a crowd of eight . ''
