New Pornographers leader A.C. Newman blogged on the Rolling Stone website the story of the writing of this heavy anthem : `` The beginning of this song is probably my favorite point on the record .
I 'm always happy when I come up with a simple three-chord melody with good lyrics , though it only lasts for 45 seconds .
It definitely has the ` heaviest ' lyrics on the album , and yet it came to me when I was walking my dog in Brooklyn .
Like ` Yesterday ' was initially about McCartney 's scrambled eggs , this song was initially about wanting my dog Chops to go poo so I go could go back inside .
Sometimes there are musical ideas that just stay with you , even when you were n't trying , and you have to follow them .
So that little ditty morphed into a sad ode to mortality .
That is before the cellos kick in .
After that , it becomes a new beast .
You can only feel sad for so long , about 45 seconds usually , before the cellos and Kaossilator kick in .
Just like in real life.The main thrust of this song is the cello riff .
I wanted to have a song that was driven by a cello .
ELO is an obvious touch point but you may also notice that the part is a slight rewrite of the riff on Railroad Jerk 's ` Glamorous Bitch . '
That was unintentional though , I only noticed it later .
A subconscious tip of the hat to Matador history ?
Everything is bound to sound like something else.So I had the first 45 seconds completely written and then I had the music written for the rest of it .
I just needed to find the rest of the lyrics .
I liked the idea of ` little brother ' from the beginning of the song and decided to use that as a reoccurring theme .
The rest of it came from the bathroom door at Seaside Lounge studio in Brooklyn.One of the upstairs bathrooms at Seaside Lounge is a closet-sized little thing , and on the inside of the door is written the graffiti : ` We End Up Togther . '
You read this many times before you realize that there is a missing ` e ' in ` together . '
It struck me as a really great line , and as far as I knew it had n't been used in a song yet .
I just went from there .
When I started laying down the vocals for this song , the guys who worked at the studio slowly began to notice something familiar about that line .
They would usually figure it out upon returning from the bathroom.Even though the line does n't show up until the very end , it is still the subtext that pushes along all of the other lyrics .
It 's a song about all of the times in the past that I had met my wife , or been in the same room as my wife , and had been completely unaware that , well , we end up together.Later , after finishing some Okkervil River recording at Seaside , Will Sheff would tell me ' I ca n't believe you did n't call the album ` Togther . ' ''
Many writers have assumed that the band 's name was a reference to Jimmy Swaggart 's reputed claim that rock and roll was `` the new pornography . ''
However , the website Chart Attack revealed that the name of the band was chosen by Newman , who came up with it after watching a Japanese film called The Pornographers .
He explained : `` That -LSB- Swaggart quote -RSB- came after the fact .
Somebody told me that and I though it was so good that I was going to make it my new story.The truth of it is , I 've always liked the Japanese movie The Pornographers .
It 's a mid '60s movie .
I was so fascinated by the word pornographer - it just seemed like a weird word to me .
It seemed like such a clinical word to describe what it is .
-LSB- Also -RSB- , Dan -LSB- Bejar -RSB- , at around the same time , had a song called ` The Pornographers , ' that was on the first Destroyer record .
I also always loved the name The New Seekers .
I always thought it was a ridiculous name .
There were the original Seekers and then a few years later , a completely different band showed up and they called themselves The New Seekers .
I really liked the ` New .
` Somehow , in my head one night , it just became The New Pornographers .
Before we 'd written any songs - before we were a band - I thought , ` We 're going to be a band and we 're going to be called The New Pornographers .
` So , the name came first , probably in 1996 .
It was quite a while before we ever got around to rehearsing .
Then I assembled the band Wizard of Oz-style . ''
