This is a tribute to the oft-married singer-songwriter and the women who have inspired him .
Both Jennifer Nettles and Kristian Bush share a fondness for Steve Earle 's brand of Country music .
It taught them that Country was still viable , and gave them confidence to reimagine the sound .
And when the duo found out what a shameless romantic Earle was , they had to set all his comings and goings to music .
Nettles looks at it this way : `` There comes a point in life of a troubadour when the character can become heroic .
Even legendary . ''
When Kristian Bush brought up the name Steve Earle to Jennifer Nettles , he was surprised to hear that she had never heard of the singer .
This led to the song .
Says Bush : `` I told her some of the anecdotes - I did n't know if were true or not , but I told her the parts of the stories I knew .
And I knew that he had had multiple wives , and I knew that he had married Wife No. 1 again as Wife No. 4 .
There was some sort of strange little thing in there , and I loved the romantic-ness of the fact that , in my mind , you could kind of track his wives by his love songs .
I loved this idea that you could listen to his albums and they 're like , ` Oh , man , I wonder who that one was about . '
So I was telling her this , and sometimes when I tell stories , Jennifer will just be like , ` Oh , tell me more , tell me more . '
We were laughing , and I said , ` Well , then he moved to Ireland , and then he did this , and then he did that . '
So she was like , ` This is totally a song . '
I was like , ` Really ?
Okay , ' and I picked up a guitar and started going .
I would say a line and she 'd say the next line , then I 'd say a line and she 'd say the next line .
We wrote it in about 25 , 30 minutes . ''
The Sugarland duo has never formally met Steve Earle , but Kristian Bush has crossed paths with him , which led to this song .
In our 2013 interview with Kristian , he explained that in 1995 , he was working on an album with his group Billy Pilgrim at Treasure Isle Recorders in Nashville .
As luck would have it , so was Earle .
`` He had gotten out of jail and he came into Nashville to make a record , and I was the guy making a record the day before , '' said Bush .
`` I met him in the hallway , and all the players stayed in the room .
He made an album called I Feel Alright , and I was making a Billy Pilgrim album called Bloom .
All the players are literally the same on both records , and so is the producer -LSB- Richard Dodd -RSB- .
He was just the next guy slated in .
It always felt like the Steve Earle awesome version of a record and then the Billy Pilgrim version of that time in the world .
So that 's all I really knew of Steven .
That 's how I met him .
I 'd heard Guitar Town before , and I 'd heard Copperhead Road , but I had n't really associated it with anything other than , ` Oh , that 's kind of cool . '
And when he re-launched , I was interested in him because he was using the same players and the same producer .
And I was like , ` Oh , man , when that record comes out , I 've got to remember to write that guy 's name down so I can listen to his record . '
Because how weird is it that you 're using the same band the same producer , different songs .
But when do you ever get that litmus test ? ''
Has Steve Earle heard this song ?
Not likely .
Here 's what Kristian Bush told us : `` We sent it to him .
His manager responded to us and said , ` Steve said he does n't read any press that anyone writes about him , -LSB- long deliberate pause -RSB- , and sure as s -- t would never listen to a song that anyone wrote about him . ' ''
