This is the closing track of Forever Endeavour , the 12th studio album by Canadian singer-songwriter Ron Sexsmith .
Much of it deals with a health scare Sexsmith had after doctors discovered a lump in his throat in 2011 .
`` During that period , I was in a bit of fog because you keep thinking about it , '' he told CBC Music .
You 're having a good time but your mind returns to it ... You start to hear , you know .
`` Fortunately the lump turned out to be benign .
When Sexsmith ran into frequent collaborator Mitchell Froom - who had helmed the Canadian singer 's first three albums and 2006 's Time Being , he knew he had found his producer for Forever Endeavour .
`` I had thought about working with Bob but I did wonder if these were the right songs for his approach - it 's very polished and it 's big , the big drums , and very muscular sounding , '' said Sexsmith to The Toronto Sun .
`` But then I ran into Mitchell Froom in L.A. and he was telling me he was excited , he was really getting into orchestration .
And I already thought , ` There 's something about these songs that I felt were very like kind of classic singer-songwriter things . '
And I was thinking of Neil Diamond and those sort of '70s records where there 'd be like really warm-sounding guitars and strings and stuff . ''
During several months of tests and checkups , Sexsmith was in a particularly reflective mood , fuelling several of the songs he wrote for Forever Endeavour .
This was the first one he wrote during his health scare .
`` I did n't want to write a downbeat song , but that 's the big question , '' he told CBC Music .
`` All the people in our lives , do we ever get to see them again after we 're gone ?
There 's no answer for any of this .
`` Sexsmith added : `` You 're always looking for a song that will start the record and end it , and this one seemed like a good one to end it on .
I 'm not saying it 's a super happy song , but it was a nice sentiment to end on .
How great it is to wake up in the morning and still be here .
It 's just a good song that completes the album . ''
Regarding Froom 's input on this song , Sexsmith told CBC Music : `` I had the music before I had the lyrics , and it sounded like something you 'd hear in a medieval castle or something , and so I thought it was cool that Mitchell had these woodwind arrangements .
I felt I should be wearing a powdered wig or something . ''
