MCR were offered huge sums to contribute a song to the Twilight soundtrack series because of the band 's connections with Goth culture .
The quartet refused as they loath what Goth has become .
Frontman Gerard Way told the British music magazine NME : `` That 's why the song ` Vampire Money ' is on there , because there 's a lot of people chasing that f -- king money .
Twilight ?
A lot of people around us were like , ` Please , for the love of God , do this f -- ing movie . '
But we 'd moved on . ''
Guitarist Ray Toro -LRB- from Spin magazine -RRB- : `` Gerard wrote those lyrics to the song as if to say , ` If you want a song for the movie this is what 's it 's going to be . '
The phrase ` vampire money ' came when we were doing an interview and the guy asked us if we were going to get some of that ` vampire money ' that everybody wants .
So that 's what the song 's about .
I think songs for soundtracks can be cool but we do n't really buy into the movie .
We do n't personally enjoy it but that 's not to say it 's bad . ''
Way explained to Q magazine why the band loath what has happened to Goth culture : `` We were the only kids in black wearing mascara playing heavy music in the punk clubs where we were from .
With things like Twilight the idea of anything gothic like vampires was n't scary any more , they were sexy or contemplative .
To me vampires are the new Jonas Brothers .
So we 've gone the opposite way . ''
Way explained to Billboard magazine why this was selected as the closing track for Danger Days : `` I 'd like to think of ` Vampire Money ' as the end credit because originally , the record ended with just the blast of sound -LSB- on `` Goodnite , Dr. Death '' -RSB- .
We brought in ` Vampire Money , ' which is the second song we recorded and it 's this pure kind of punk rock energy , channeling Chuck Berry , Jerry Lee Lewis , even the originators of punk .
Obviously it 's a standard 1-4-5 type of riff and you 've heard that before , but it 's about the now for us .
It feels like we 're breaking the fourth wall and saying , ` Now we 're going to play just the four guys in the band . ' ''
