The release of American singer -- songwriter Sharon Van Etten 's 2010 sophomore album Epic coincided with a difficult break-up of a relationship .
She busied herself with touring for the record , but when the singer completed her schedule a year later , she found herself homeless in New York .
After a period of sleeping on friends ' couches , recovering from her heavy touring schedule , Van Etten hooked up the National 's guitarist Aaron Dessner to record her third album , The Tramp .
She told Spinner that that title is her own private joke about her experiences over the previous two years .
Explained Van Etten : `` When you think of it , I 'm a total goofball .
I 'm a Charlie Chaplin tramp .
As far as being homeless , I was a tramp .
With touring , I was tramping around .
I looked up the word when I was considering it for the album title and the original definition is ` to be homeless . '
Either in New Zealand or Australia , it means ` to camp ' and ` to travel . '
I 'm a total physical comic like Charlie Chaplin , and because I write about love and it 's about more than one person , I think people would laugh at the word ` tramp . '
It 's my own quiet joke .
I feel like when a man is called ` tramp ' it 's more endearing than calling a woman a tramp .
I decided to kind of own it a little bit . ''
Van Etten hisses on this venomous attack on her former lover , `` I had a thought that you would take me seriously . ''
She explained to Spinner that the song , `` is about trying to be at peace with a relationship in the past . ''
The singer added : `` Not everything ends beautifully .
Sometimes it takes years to try to find peace and learn from it and be OK with it , to learn how to identify negative feelings without it affecting you , letting yourself be angry at things without taking it out on other people and letting it remain as thoughts and trying to train yourself out of thinking negatively . ''
This artillery-drummed rocker is the first single from The Tramp .
It features Aaron Dessner and his brother Bryce , ambient singer-songwriter Julianna Barwick , Wye Oak 's Jenn Wasner , and The Walkmen 's Matt Barrick .
Van Etten made her TV debut in January 2012 when she performed this song on Fallon accompanied by Aaron Dessner on guitar .
