Jason DeRulo is an American pop/R & B singer from Florida .
This song was his debut official single after becoming the first artist to sign with multi-platinum music producer J.R Rotem 's record label , Beluga Heights/Warner Bros Records .
DeRulo co-wrote the song with Rotem , who also produced the track .
The song samples English singer-songwriter Imogen Heap 's 2005 single `` Hide and Seek . ''
This was the first Hot 100 # 1 for the Warner Bros label since Daniel Powter 's `` Bad Day , '' three years previously in 2006 .
Digital Spy asked DeRulo whose idea was the Imogen Heap sample .
He replied : `` Definitely collaborative .
My producer JR Rotem is a music lover , and I 'm a music lover too , so I 'll often go into a record store and grab a CD I 've never heard before .
One day I picked up Imogen Heap , brought it into JR and we both loved it , so we started to experiment .
It just so happened that my brother had just been telling me his story .
You know , Imogen 's being sort of sarcastic on that line -- `` Whatcha say , mmm that you only meant well ?
Well , of course you did '' -- so it made a perfect marriage . ''
On this song Derulo admits to his girl that he 's been flirting with other women behind her back .
He asks , `` Whatcha Say about some ` kiss and make up ? ' ''
This song was co-written by DeRulo 's Beluga Heights label mate Sean Kingston .
The original intention was for the Beautiful Girls singer to record the song .
DeRulo told Digital Spy the story behind the song : `` Basically my brother called me one day and said , ' I cheated on my girl , but I love her so much and I hope she 'll give me one more shot . '
I found his story really compelling , so I just went into the studio and tried it out .
You know , people go through that kind of thing every day , which is why the song is so relatable .
She did take my brother back though and they 're actually engaged now , so it all worked out good in the end . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Bernard Gourley .
DeRulo told Blogcritics Magazine 's Clayton Perry what lessons he leant from the music video director .
Said DeRulo : `` Throughout the whole shoot he was just telling me to be myself .
`` Do n't try to be anybody else . ''
We set up first the story line , obviously , and then he just wanted me to go .
He did n't want to give me too much direction because he wanted it to be me .
And I feel like the video captured that .
It captured me .
It captured my personality , and it captured me , Jason Derülo as a human being and not Jason Derülo , the pop star . ''
