This sensual urban tune is a single from R&B singer Kelly Rowland 's third album .
The song was premiered on the Rap-Up .
com website on March 2 , 2011 .
An electronic remix produced by Diplo was premiered via Rap-Up .
com on March 8 , 2011 .
Rowland told MTV News how she got Weezy on board for this track : `` Wayne and I have known each other for a really long time , '' she said of the collaboration .
` Motivation ' came about when I was in the studio with -LSB- producers -RSB- Jim Jonsin and Rico Love , and we kind of were just vibing .
I told Rico I wanted something really sexy ... and he came up with ` Motivation ' along with Jim.It turned into this amazing record .
I actually rushed Rico out of the studio and I went to a Heat game , and I saw Wayne there .
`` She continued : `` I played it for him and he got on it , and it was just as simple as that . ''
Despite topping the Hot R&B / Hip-Hop Songs chart , this tune has its detractors .
Jeff Bhasker , a producer on several of Beyoncé 's 4 tracks , tweeted , `` How can this kr song with the weakest beat and melody of all time be the # 1 song on urban !? Oh yeah .
Wayne .
`` Bhasker continued to bash Beyoncé 's former Destiny 's Child colleague , `` I just listened to Motivation again to see if I was to harsh in my critique .
I was n't .
The lyrics are horrid as well . ''
Rowland was in the studio while Rico was laying down the reference track and showed her enthusiasm for it immediately .
`` Kelly was there and watched the whole process , '' Rico recalled .
`` As soon as I finished singing the demo , usually an artist wants to live with it or listen to it for a little while .
She just said , ' I want to cut it right now . '
So she jumped in the booth , and we cut the record . ''
The song has proved popular in strip clubs .
The Boombox asked Rowland if she was concerned about the suggestive nature of the song ?
She replied : '' -LSB- Laughs -RSB- Well , for me , being in Destiny 's Child , we were very much about female empowerment .
And that was because other women had come before us and empowered us in different ways .
So I felt like I was in a place where I was coming into my own sensuality .
There 's nothing wrong with that .
Sensuality is a very empowering place as well .
It makes you feel strong sexually . ''
Florida producer and songwriter Jim Jonsin and Diddy-Dirty Money co-writer Rico Love were the men twiddling the knobs for this song .
The duo 's other collaborations include Nelly 's hit `` Just a Dream . ''
The song finds Rowland promising to be her lover 's motivation before her label mate Lil Wayne steps in with a romantic verse offering kitchen and car metaphors .
The track finds Rowland and Wayne trading flirty quips with each other . ''
` Motivation ' makes me feel extremely , über-duber sexy , '' she told MTV News .
`` It has that personality and characteristic to it that I do n't think anybody can deny .
That 's why when Wayne dropped that insane verse on there ... I was like , ` You really brought that up even more . '
He went into the studio and just did it .
I do n't think it takes much for Wayne to think .
He just does it .
He 's so admirable . ''
Rico Love told MTV 's Mixtape Daily that the origins of the song lay in a New York meeting between him , Rowland and the singer 's label boss , Sylvia Rhone .
He explained .
`` They just were saying , ` We need to find that single ; we need that big single . '
Everybody was asking for an uptempo , actually.I flew down to Miami the next day , and that Tuesday , we got back in the studio , and Jim started playing these chords , and then coming up with these little sounds -- the signature sounds that Jim comes up with .
I just told him to lay it like a skeleton idea , and I jumped in the booth , and I started with the verse , and I kind of sang my way all the way through the record . ''
Rowland previously worked with Lil Wayne back in 2004 when Weezy collaborated with Destiny 's Child on their single `` Soldier . ''
Rico Love told Billboard magazine this was one of his favorite melodies he ever wrote as , `` it was so challenging . ''
He added : `` A lot of people caught it right away and some did n't .
it ended up being # 1 for eight weeks -LRB- on R&B / Hip-Hop Songs -RRB- .
I was excited to be able to cross those lines sonically that was n't so obvious but was more in a subtle way . ''
