`` Today is Gon na Be a Great Day '' is the full length version of theme song to the Disney TV show Phineas and Ferb , which is about about two step brothers who do stuff like build rollercoasters and time machines on their summer vacation .
The song -LRB- and the theme -RRB- are performed by Bowling For Soup , whose hits include `` 1985 '' and `` Girl All The Bad Guys Want . ''
The additional lyrics for the extended version were written by the group 's lead singer Jaret Reddick , who told us how he ended up working on the show .
Said Reddick : `` I got a really random call from some folks at Disney and they were developing this show , and the two creators were Dan Povenmire and Swampy Marsh , who had both worked on The Simpsons together ; Dan went on to work on Family Guy amongst other things , and Swampy went on to create a show called Rocko 's Modern Life .
They came together at a restaurant over dinner and Dan drew some pictures on a napkin and said , ` I 'm thinking about doing this cartoon , but I wo n't do it without you . '
So the idea was born.And luckily enough for me , they were both big Bowling for Soup fans .
And so as they were developing this they had the first 13 episodes drawn and voiced and stuff , but incomplete .
They had this theme song that was about 25 seconds , 30 seconds long , and they wanted to turn it into an actual radio single .
And so they contacted me directly and said , ` Would you be interested in performing a theme song , but also writing a song around it to try to make it into a 3 and a half minute song that we can play on the radio ?
` So I was like , ` Sure , yeah , I 'd love to do that . '
And I was headed out to L.A. anyway , I was actually working on an album that we were doing .
I went in and I had this meeting with the head of music and animation there at Disney , and it was just a really cool experience .
They gave me a tour of the Disney lot .
And as many songs as I 've done for Disney movies in the past , I 've never actually been on the campus.So we went to lunch , and then after lunch they were like , ` Hey , do you want to see some of the episodes ? '
So I walk into this conference room and there 's my name and the Phineas and Ferb guys up on this big screen , and they showed me the first 13 episodes , unfinished .
I took notes and I flew home the next day and I wrote ` Today is Gon na Be A Great Day ' around the original theme song , and it took me about 20 minutes .
I sent them an acoustic demo , and they were just like , ` We love this ! '
We went in the studio , I think just a few days after that , and recorded the song with my guys in Bowling for Soup .
And the rest , as they say , is history . ''
On Phineas and Ferb , Jaret Reddick also plays Danny , the lead singer of the '80s group Love Händel , which the cartoon brothers reunited for the sake of their parents , who first kissed at a Love Händel concert .
Bowling for Soup are also involved in some of the many musical numbers that have become a specialty on the show .
Reddick explained that Povenmire and Marsh write these numbers : `` Martin Olson is the head writer and usually it 's those three sitting in a room .
So when I 'm lucky enough to be in L.A. and be invited into that room , it 's always great , because they 're super open to my ideas .
And I write from a completely different world .
Dan was in a band forever and Swampy 's really musical and Martin 's musical , they 're all musical guys .
But I 'm a little bit younger and I write all different kinds of music .
So it 's a fun experience , because they 'll just be like , ` We would have never thought of that . '
And Dan tells people , ` Jaret taught me how to make this chord ' and whatever .
So that makes you feel really , really good , whereas these guys are just uber successful now .
And they do n't forget where it all comes from .
They 're great people .
It 's an amazing , amazing organization . ''
