This close to ten minute song has a five-minute drum solo in the middle , and an orchestra at the end .
Zombie explained why to MSN Music : `` I was listening to a bunch of different music for other reasons , working on a different project , and I had been listening to Iron Butterfly in the car and the drum solo -LSB- from ` In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida ' -RSB- came on while I was driving .
Everyone always makes fun of that like it 's a joke or something , but I was stuck in traffic listening to the whole thing and I was really digging it .
So it was fresh in my mind when I went into the studio that day , and I said to Tommy -LRB- Clufetos , drums -RRB- , ` Let 's put a drum solo on this song . '
And he thought I was kidding , I think , at first , but then he went in and did it and the only thing was , he kept -- I could hear that he was starting to wind down the drum solo after a minute , two minutes , three minutes , like he was thinking , how much does he want ?
And I just kept screaming out there , ` Keep going !
Keep going ! '
So he went for about five minutes or whatever it turns out to be , and then he came in and he thought for sure I was gon na chop it down or not even use it and I just left it as is .
It 's in the song .
`` He added : `` It 's actually the longest record I 've ever made as a solo artist .
It 's more than ten minutes longer than any record I 've ever made .
We were just in a groove , crankin ' out songs .
But I figured , how many kids these days have ever picked up a record and had a drum solo on it ?
Probably none .
So what the hell .
That one , in contrast to some of the other songs that are so stripped-down , that one has a 100-piece orchestra playing and a drum solo , we decided , let 's just pile it all into the last track .
Tyler Bates , the composer who had done music for some of my films and Watchmen and 300 , he composed the string section and we went into a different studio with a full orchestra and recorded it .
They sat there and played along with the song . ''
