This is the title track of the twelfth studio album by American Country music artist Vince Gill .
It was released on October 25 , 2011 via MCA Nashville .
Gill told The Boot that it was his manager , Larry Fitzgerald , who came up with the title , `` because he listened to the record and said , You 're playing so much more guitar .
Something 's different about you and the way that you 're playing .
I think you ought to call it ` Guitar Slinger . ' ''
Gill explained how the song describes his relationship with his wife , Christian singer Amy Grant , `` in a sense . ''
He said : `` I like songs with tempo to have a bit of wit to them .
There are certain songs that are well-suited for lots of guitar playing .
With those kinds of songs , I just want a great feel so I can play a lot .
It 's the same thing with the feel of this song .
But it 's funny because it 's all about this guy who is a nightlife kind of wild child .
It 's about me and Amy , in a sense .
It says , ` Well , I was living the life of a guitar slinger/Womens and wine and whiskey for dinner/Oh , I knew I was in trouble the first time I seen her / I went and married that contemporary Christian singer . '
To me , it 's very , very funny .
She heard it and just shook her head and said , ` You 'll say anything . ' ''
This song was originally not going to be on the record , but a slot was found for the tune after Gill had decided to name the album after it .
The floods that swept through Nashville in May 2010 affected Gill , along with many other Nashville musicians .
He explained : `` In the process of recording , the flood came and wiped out a big part of my collection of guitars and amps that I 've been buying .
I had 30-40 guitars and 30 amps that were lost in the flood .
In the last verse , it has a reference to the flood : ` Well , there 's a few licks left in this guitar slinger / Even though half of my stuff 's in the Cumberland River / Well , now all I really need is just one six stringer / Yeah , I might have slowed down a little but buddy , I can still bring her . '
It 's got a great sense of humor .
It 's fun and it feels great .
I always want the lyrics to make you chuckle . ''
-LRB- Source of above 2 quotes Roughstock -RRB-
