`` Get It While You Can '' was written by the songwriting team of Jerry Ragovoy and Mort Shuman , and recorded by Janis Joplin and the Full Tilt Boogie Band .
It is included as the last track on her famous posthumous album Pearl .
So if you listen to her primary studio albums in order of release , this is literally the last note you hear from her .
Heroin claims another star.Mort Shuman is a Brill Building alumnus , whose usual collaborator was Doc Pomus .
This song is about not passing up the opportunity for love and comfort , because life 's too mean and short .
Is n't that just about the cornerstone of Joplin 's philosophy ?
In the book Love , Janis by Janis ' sister Laura Joplin , Full Tilt Boogie Band guitarist John Till shares this moment of Janis ' free-wheeling spirit : `` She 'd come boogeying up to me and our faces would come right together like that , and then she 'd give me a great big kiss .
And I would n't remember nothing except big asterisks and f *** ing exclamation points over my head ... It was an experience , taking a guitar solo in front of forty thousand people and getting this kiss from Janis .
`` Also from Love , Janis , a glimpse into her application of the counter-culture philosophy right towards her last year : '' ... in private , she was changing in small but important ways .
When someone who latched onto her group was grumbling angrily about the ` pigs ' abusing their power , Janis cut him short .
` They 're cops , just people doing their job , honey .
Do n't call them pigs , it just makes it worse . '
When she first started touring with Big Brother , if a waitress was rude to them because of their attire and style , they often left without tipping .
On the Full Tilt tour , a rude waitress might be left a $ 100 bill , as a way to change her attitude about hippies . ''
Speaking of the album Pearl , Janis had plans to open a bar named `` Pearl 's '' after her singing career ended .
From the same book , a quote from Janis offering a take on her life 's work : `` My whole purpose is to communicate .
What I sing is my own reality .
But just the fact that people come up to me and say , ` Hey , that 's my reality too , ' proves to me that it 's not just mine . ''
