In an interview with Live Daily , guitarist Juan DeVevo was asked why the album was titled The Altar and the Door .
He replied : `` For a lot of people who go to church , when they 're at church and they 're hearing the pastor speak or the music playing , they start to realize that God , through that , starts to speak to them .
They start to realize really what it is they can do .
It 's so clear and it 's obvious what it is they can do for them .
It 's different for different people .
When they start to walk through the door , they start to get more out of focus and they start to ask questions like , ` Maybe I was just too emotional right then .
That was kind of ridiculous what I was thinking right there .
Maybe I should calm it down a little bit .
Maybe that was kind of radical .
Maybe I need to just chill .
I need to be just ` normal . '
It was just a phase I was going through . '
By the time they get from the altar to the door , they 've gone through a whole change .
They 're just back where they were .
That 's why a lot of people think the church does n't work .
By the time they 've left that church for that day , they 're back where they were .
There was n't any kind of change .
We do n't allow God to change us .
We just think , ` Maybe it was all just a dream . '
We 're just trying to take the things that we know to be true when we 're in that moment , the quiet and stillness , and take it and instill it into our lives .
Make it part of our daily lives so He can change us .
We sing these songs from , ` Hey this is what I 'm struggling with .
Is anybody else dealing with this ? ' ''
The album debuted at # 2 in the US Billboard 200 chart , an outstanding achievement for an overtly Christian band .
DeVevo discussed Casting Crowns ' song writing process with Live Daily : `` As far as lyrics and everything , Mark -LRB- Hall , vocalist -RRB- is the seasoned veteran on the lyrics .
He goes off for maybe two or three days at a time .
We really get together as a band and pray for him .
He just basically casts praise over what it is that people need to hear and God will show him those things .
Through ministry , just dealing with the problems that people have every day , that 's one question we get a lot : ` How do you know what people are dealing with ? '
That 's why we stay involved in ministry .
You get to see just what real people deal with and the fact that everybody deals with the same stuff , it 's just that nobody 's talking about it .
That 's why we get it out there .
For me and Hector -LRB- Cervantes guitar -RRB- and the rest of the guys , we come up with ideas and give them to Mark .
Usually , they just gel with what Mark 's writing lyrically .
The music is just an excuse to get the message out there , to get people to talk . ''
