Lambert said of this song , which she wrote with Travis Howard and Ashley Monroe : '' ` Heart Like Mine ' started in Pigeon Forge .
Ashley and I went up to Dollywood and spent the night in a cabin for a couple of days to just write and hang out and have some girl time .
Some people might get mad about the lyrics but I grew up in church , and I 've been a Christian my whole life .
I feel that there are so many judgmental attitudes out there and this song is autobiographical in a way , because I 've definitely had my share of being judged .
I 'm playing a character a little bit in every song .
I do n't really smoke , but it sounds cool in the song . ''
Lambert and Monroe started the song but they got stuck on the chorus .
Howard recalled to The Boot : `` The Lamberts used to do a family river float every summer in South Texas , and I always went , '' he explained .
`` One afternoon between drinking and floating , -LSB- Miranda and Ashley -RSB- came out of a cabin and said , ` Hey , we started this song but we ca n't find a good way through the chorus . '
`` So the ladies gave their male co-writer the challenge of finishing the song .
Howard recalled Lambert saying , `` Great , we each wrote a verse , so the last one and the bridge are on you . ''
The song became Lambert 's second country chart-topper , when it replaced Sara Evans ' `` A Little Bit Stronger , '' at # 1 on the chart dated May 28 , 2011 .
It marked the first time women had topped Country Songs consecutively since Taylor Swift 's `` Love Story '' replaced Carrie Underwood 's `` Just a Dream '' in November 2008 .
Lambert wrote this with Travis Howard , whom she originally met when they were both contestants on the reality series Nashville Star , and with Ashley Monroe .
Howard recalled to The Boot : `` Miranda and I started writing together almost immediately when we met in 2003 on the set of Nashville Star .
We fought like the Hatfields and McCoys , but we were both just drawn to each other 's interests and writing style . ''
Lambert explained the song 's meaning : `` That 's a look in to my world .
Just being a real person , there 's no place for judgment , '' the singer-songwriter said .
`` I grew up in church , and my mom always says I cut my teeth on a church pew -LSB- laughs -RSB- , but I have also been judged a lot , and probably judged a lot myself .
But I feel like there 's nobody to do that except for that man upstairs , so this song 's really about embracing who you are and knowing that , no matter what , somebody loves you without condition . ''
