This is the song that led to Paul Simon 's South Africa visit , where he started recording the tracks for Graceland .
In 1984 , Simon 's friend Heidi Berg gave him a tape of South African recordings called Accordion Jive Hits No. 2 , and there was an instrumental song on the tape called `` Gumboota '' that Simon loved and wanted to record .
Not only did he want to record the song , but he wanted to do it with the same South African musicians he heard on the tape : a popular group called The Boyoyo Boys .
This turned into a very big deal , since South Africa was under a cultural boycott from the United Nations in protest of their Apartheid policy , so entertainers were strongly discouraged from visiting .
Simon went anyway and recorded in Johannesburg with local musicians recruited by South African producers with a connection to Hilton Rosenthal , a white South African who worked for Simon 's record company .
He recorded the song , retitled `` Gumboots , '' with The Boyoyo Boys , but more significantly , he spent about two weeks there recording with other African musicians , which developed into many of the songs on the Graceland album .
Simon later added soprano and alto saxophones to the song .
These instruments are frequently used in `` township jive '' music -LRB- `` Mbaqanga '' -RRB- , which is similar to another Simon song , `` Diamonds on the Soles of Her Shoes . ''
In fact , these two instruments -LRB- and the lyrics -RRB- are the only things that make this song different from an already existing South African song that Simon loved .
According to Simon , this is the type of music favored by miners and railroad workers in South Africa .
The term `` Gumboots '' refers to the heavy boots worn by these workers while they are on the job.The lyrics , however , have nothing to do with working in the mines or boots , and the word `` Gumboots '' never appears .
Simon wrote the lyrics for the track when he returned to America - he did his best to weave words around the South African rhythms , and came up three verses connected to the lines , `` You do n't feel you could love me but I feel you could . ''
Paul Simon was n't thrilled with The Boyoyo Boys when he recorded with them , but he was very happy with some of the other musicians he found .
This song stayed on the album only because it led to the Graceland project .
Simon told SongTalk : `` If it was n't that ` Gumboots ' led me into the whole project , I would have dropped ` Gumboots ' from the album .
Because I think it 's the weakest of the South African cuts .
`` As he did with all his South African tracks , Simon gave writing credits to the original writers of the song .
