This mid-tempo Country ballad is the first single from American Country artist Sara Evans ' sixth album , Stronger .
Luke Laird , Hillary Lindsey , and Hillary Scott wrote the song and the Lady Antebellum singer also performs harmony vocals on the track .
The song features on the soundtrack for the 2010 movie Country Strong .
It is sung by Leighton Meester in the film , while Evan 's version is on the movie 's soundtrack .
`` I 'm so excited .
We found a song , put it on the record , put it out as my first single , shot the video for it and then found out it was in this movie .
I was overwhelmed ! ''
Sara told The Boot .
Evans told Country Weekly : `` It 's a great lyric .
I love the fact that it 's very realistic .
Some songs are like ` you left me and I 'm totally over you and you never cross my mind . '
I love that the song is realistic .
It says ` I 'm getting a little bit stronger .
I 'm doing little things at a time . ' ''
The song 's female protagonist describes in the song how she is constantly reminded of her former love interest as she goes through her daily routine .
Hillary Scott told The Boot her lyrics are based on an actual experience .
She explained : `` When I wrote it , I was barely a month out of a really , really bad break-up .
It 's very autobiographical ... one of the most personal songs that I 've ever written .
It was personal when I wrote it , but now that it 's actually out there , it takes it to another level .
I 'm sure he -LSB- my ex -RSB- has heard it , but that 's OK because the song 's about ` everyday without you , I 'm a little bit stronger , ' which is true .
So , he can hear that .
That 's OK . ''
Peter Zavadil and directed the song 's music video , which was shot on August 9 , 2010 in Nashville , Tennessee .
It finds a distraught Evans performing the song in various locations .
Throughout the clip , scenes of her recording a video blog are included in which Evans notes that she 's getting stronger with each passing day .
The song returned Evans to the top of Country Songs , for the first time since she reigned with `` A Real Fine Place to Start '' for two weeks in September and October 2005 .
This was the longest hiatus between # 1s -LRB- five years , seven months -RRB- since Garth Brooks nine-year , one-month , gap between `` To Make You Feel My Love '' and `` More Than a Memory '' -LRB- 1998-2007 -RRB- .
