This duet with Tim McGraw is the debut single from Kenny Chesney 's thirteenth studio album , Welcome to the Fishbowl .
Nashville record label politics prevented the two long-term friends from collaborating on a radio single , but once McGraw ended his two-decade relationship with Curb , he had the freedom to record and release music with whomever he wanted .
The two pals debuted this rocker about feeling like a rock star after a long and hard working week during the ACM Awards on April 1 , 2012 .
The song debuted at # 13 on Hot Country Songs , marking the second-highest new entry since BDS began monitoring data in January 1990 .
So what song had the highest arrival ?
Garth Brooks bulleted straight in at # 1 with `` More Than a Memory '' in September 2007 .
Chesney said the song is relatable to all his fans . ''
` Feel Like a Rock Star ' is completely non-judgmental because everybody does things different , '' he acknowledged , `` Everybody has their way of living like a rock star or stepping outside of themselves to do whatever it is that makes them happy on a Friday and Saturday night .
And it can be a wide range of things -LSB- laughs -RSB- , and trust me , we see that from the stage .
It 's an eclectic bunch we have out there , and they do eclectic things to have fun . ''
This was Chesney and McGraw 's second recorded duet , though their first to be released as a single .
The duo previously collaborated on `` I Ca n't Go There , '' a track from Chesney 's 2002 album , No Shoes , No Shirt , No Problems .
The song was written by Chris Tompkins and Rodney Clawson .
Chesney said the first time he heard the tune , he knew that he wanted to record it , as it was so relatable .
`` It describes my fan base to a T because my road family , we have always worked very hard , but we 've always lived by the theory of we work really hard and play harder , '' he explained .
`` It seemed to work for us .
I think that defines a lot of the people that have spent a lot of summers with us out there on the road .
The first time I heard ` Feel Like a Rock Star , ' I knew I was gon na record it because it defined everything that we 're about out there on the road.We see a lot of people out there that are letting loose , having fun , and ` Feel Like a Rock Star ' describes them , '' continued Chesney , `` but it also describes a thing that has turned into less of a show and more of an event , and that 's our world out there . ''
