Sidewalk Prophets is a Contemporary Christian music band from Anderson , Indiana .
The band consists of lead vocalist David Frey , rhythm guitarist Ben McDonald , bass guitarist Cal Joslin and drummer Justin Nace .
They initially made a name for themselves at Indiana 's Anderson University where Frey and McDonald met .
After signing with Word Records they released their debut studio album , These Simple Truths on August 25 , 2009 , which earned the group the 2010 GMA Dove Award for New Artist of the Year .
This is the third single released from the set and their first # 1 on the Billboard Christian single chart .
Frey and McDonald wrote the tune in the latter 's Anderson basement one stormy night when they set out to write a song about what Jesus meant to them .
Frey explained its background in an interview with NewReleaseTuesday : `` The background of the first verse comes from a real life experience I had as a kid .
I loved aquariums and owned a goldfish and one day my parents were out and left me and my friend with a babysitter .
I decided to play with my goldfish named Mortimer , and I accidentally killed it .
My babysitter seemed to have a danger radar and sensed something went wrong and asked who murdered the fish ?
I lied and blamed my friend Joel and to my surprise he took the blame for me.The next Sunday , I felt terribly guilty for blaming my friend , and I knew I had sinned .
In church , I sat in the balcony and started sobbing uncontrollably for what I had done , and I told my mom I was sorry for hurting her and for hurting Jesus .
She smiled and said , ` It 's okay , Jesus loves you no matter what you 've done . '
So this song is about me and how I sometimes feel like the lowest of all , but I know that Jesus loves me anyway .
It was there in that silly , little lie that I began to realize the power of grace .
Faults and downfalls will occur , and the true measure of a man or a boy is what we do after those moments .
Some tragedies occur and the reason is never known , but in the midst of all storms there is a place where we are safe , a place where we are truly loved , in the arms of Jesus Christ . ''
