This is about Michael Hutchence , the lead singer of INXS who killed himself in 1997 .
He and Bono were close friends , and even discussed the topic of suicide .
Bono -LRB- from Rolling Stone -RRB- : `` It 's a row between mates .
You 're kinda trying to wake them up out of an idea .
In my case it 's a row I did n't have while he was alive .
I feel the biggest respect I could pay to him was not to write some stupid soppy f -- king song , so I wrote a really tough , nasty little number , slapping him around the head .
And I 'm sorry , but that 's how it came out of me . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France , for above 2 -RRB- The band sent Jagger a copy of his version of this , and thanked him and his daughter in the album 's liner notes .
This got a lot of airplay when terrorists struck America in 2001 .
Los Angeles radio station KIIS produced a version featuring bits of President Bush 's speeches mixed in with the lyrics .
This won the 2001 Grammy for Best Pop Performance By a Duo or Group With Vocal .
It was the first award given out on the show , which U2 opened with a performance of `` Walk On . ''
In an interview with Rolling Stone , Bono said that he and Hutchence , discussed suicide in the past : `` We discussed suicide a few times and we both agreed how pathetic it was . ''
He said they had ` kinda promised each other ' neither would ever kill themselves .
Mick Jagger and his 16 year-old daughter , Elizabeth , came to their Dublin studio and sang backup on this .
U2 decided to go another direction with the song and did not use their tracks .
The video was shot in Berlin while the band was between tour dates .
It showed them in a stadium watching an American Football game .
U2 performed at the Super Bowl a few months later .
An acoustic version was included on a 2002 album of rarities called U2 7 , which was distributed through Target stores .
When Apple Computer started their online music store in 2003 , an acoustic version of this was offered as an exclusive to the service .
It was the # 1 downloaded song the first week of the service .
