This song is about -LRB- rather unsurprisingly -RRB- dancing with a lover .
It is the title track to Let 's Dance , which was produced by Nile Rodgers , who was responsible for the album 's funky sound .
Rodgers founded the disco band , Chic , and produced hits for Diana Ross , including `` Upside Down '' and `` I 'm Coming Out . ''
He also produced Madonna 's 1985 album Like a Virgin .
This was Bowie 's only transatlantic # 1 , a very upbeat song with mass appeal .
He described it as `` positive , emotional and uplifting . ''
Red Shoes are a theme in the video and appear in the lyrics , `` Put on your red shoes and dance the blues . ''
This is a reference to the 1948 movie The Red Shoes , where a dancer performs in a ballet of that name .
The idea is that the red shoes make you dance - it 's based on a Hans Christian Andersen story of the same title .
Kate Bush recorded a song about the same subject .
Craig David 's 2007 UK Top 10 hit `` Hot Stuff '' extensively samples this song .
Gnarls Barkley are digitally inserted into this video during their own video for `` Smiley Faces . ''
Speaking with the Daily Telegraph July 30 , 2013 , Nile Rodgers recalled Bowie unveiling this song to him .
`` He says , ` Nile , darling , I think this is a hit , ' and he proceeds to play what sounds like a Folk song to me , with a twelve-string guitar , '' recalled the producer .
Unable to tell Bowie that what he was playing was not dance music , Rodgers wrote an entire arrangement , taking it in `` a funky direction . ''
Said Rodgers : `` I was like the Terminator , I was unstoppable , I just wanted to make hits with David . ''
Stevie Ray Vaughan played lead guitar on this song .
Bowie was impressed when he saw Vaughan perform at the Montreaux Jazz festival a year earlier .
When Vaughan received the call from Bowie to play on the record , he was -LRB- although not literally -RRB- in the middle of recording his own album , Texas Flood .
-LRB- thanks , James - Tracy , CA -RRB- The official video was directed by David Mallet .
It was filmed in Australia and features an Aboriginal couple who are struggling against Western cultural imperialism .
The video was described by Bowie as a `` very simple , very direct '' statement against racism.According to Mallet , they shot the bar scenes in the morning , which did n't go over well with the locals , who did n't appreciate Bowie and fashionable crew .
Some of the patrons also resented the Aborigines who starred in the clip , and mocked them with their own dance moves .
Mallet shot this on film and edited it into the video - the white people dancing in the bar were actually making fun of the couple .
Bowie 's brief cameo in the Ben Stiller film , Zoolander , is accompanied by this song .
Smashing Pumpkins covered this song in 1998 along with Joy Division 's `` Transmission '' during a 25 minute live jam .
-LRB- thanks , SJ - Skalj , Denmark -RRB- Nile Rodgers recalled to The Guardian May 18 , 2012 : `` When Bowie and I got together to do Let 's Dance , we spent two weeks researching music and styles and Bowie suddenly said : ' I got it ! '
He held up a Little Richard album cover where he 's wearing a red suit , getting into a red Cadillac , with a pompadour haircut , and said : ` That 's rock 'n' roll . '
After doing all that research with him , I got it too .
I knew instantly what he wanted .
We switched the suit for a yellow one when we released our record . ''
