Christopher Breaux is an American singer-songwriter from New Orleans who records under the name of Frank Ocean .
He moved from his home city to Los Angeles in August 2005 to pursue a music career and landed a contract with Def Jam Recordings as an artist with the help of Tricky Stewart .
However , he was initially unable to build a relationship with the company and joined the controversial hip hop collective , OFWGKTA whom he 'd met through mutual friends.Ocean has written songs for a number of well known acts including Beyoncé Knowles -LRB- `` I Miss You '' from the album 4 -RRB- , as well as appearing on a couple of tracks on Kanye West and Jay-Z collaborative album , Watch The Throne .
Ocean 's debut mixtape Nostalga , Ultra was self-released February 18 , 2011 via his personal blog .
On July 26 , 2011 Def Jam released tracks from the mixtape as his debut EP .
This dark and moody tune was released as the first single from the record .
Much of Nostalga , Ultra was inspired by the ending of a relationship .
Ocean told Complex magazine : `` Going through heartbreak was new for me .
I was n't trying to make a record that people could relate to .
I was just trying to make a record with the s -- t that I wanted to express .
The s -- t that I wanted to get off my chest .
Everybody has a unique experience , but it 's a feeling that 's so human that others can relate to it .
A lot of this record is influenced by one relationship , but I do n't owe that whole project to one situation .
It does n't matter what the details of it are . ''
The music video was directed by Nabil Elderkin who also worked on projects for Bruno Mars , `` Grenade '' and Diddy `` Someone To Love Me . ''
Ocean explained the mixtape 's title in an interview with Complex magazine : `` It 's nostalgic .
It 's a longing for the past .
That 's what this record felt like .
I named it five minutes before we finished mastering .
Right before we had to write the labels on the CDs and get out of there .
Ultra , because it 's also modern because of the sonics of it .
It felt right .
That 's how I am .
I just go with it .
The only big debate was whether I was going to use the slash or the comma , but the comma felt right , too . ''
For those of you who are n't dentists , novocaine , also known as Procaine , is a local anesthetic drug , which was first synthesized in 1905 .
It is the oldest man-made local anesthetic still in clinical use for injection and is used in dentistry as a numbing agent .
This song finds Ocean singing about feeling spiritually numbed by meaningless sex after an encounter with a dental student .
