This song tells the story of a man making some bad decisions .
Johnson commented on his website that he `` believes this can happen when people are hurting and can go from bad to worse if they do n't receive the help they need . '' .
Johnson co-wrote this song with James Slater , whose other credits include Rascal Flatts ' `` Unstoppable . ''
Even though this cut was never a hit , the song 's subject matter has spoken to fans struggling with addiction issues .
Slater explained to The Boot the story behind the song : `` I had that title , ` The High Cost of Living Ai n't Nothing Like the Cost of Living High , ' for about a year and a half .
Jamey and I had become friends at the time .
I thought , ` That 's the guy I got ta write it with . '
I thought maybe he had a little experience in that .
So I called him one day , and thankfully it was right before he was about to start making his album .
He came over to the house .
It took us about two sessions to write it .
He took it home and came back , and I 'll never forget the day he came back .
He goes , ` Man , I got ta show you something . '
He said , ' I put this part in the third verse about cocaine and a whore . '
And he said , ` There goes our No. 1 single ! '
I said , ` You know , Jamey , I just trust you .
Let 's just run with it and make it real . '
And in hindsight that was the best thing that could have happened , because maybe it was n't a No. 1 single , but I 'll tell you , we 've gotten so many great letters and press about that song and it is real , and it really hits people right .
I think it 's nice to have certain songs that are just right there .
So many people have come up and said to me , ` Wow , that was me 10 years ago , ' or ` that was me four years ago . '
So I 'm real happy with that song.When you get together with Jamey you do n't know what you 're gon na get !
He 's a bright guy , he 's smart , he 's different .
And that 's what I embrace .
I grew up in Central America ... I 'm not your typical songwriter , my past is a little different , so I really embrace anything different .
And Jamey Johnson 's the real thing .
So , ` High Cost of Living ' was awesome to write ! ''
