This is the first single from Girls Aloud singer and X Factor judge Cheryl Cole 's second solo album , Messy Little Raindrops .
According to The Daily Star , the lyrics are a tribute to the singer 's dancer boyfriend Derek Hough , who supported Cole through her marriage break-up with footballer Ashley Cole and subsequent battle with malaria .
The singer spent ten days in the hospital , including several in intensive care , after picking up the disease on a trip to Tanzania with Hough in June 2010 .
She sings : `` Though I am walking through the shadows , you were with me and you comfort me . ''
The song 's music video was shot in Los Angeles just six weeks after Cole overcame her bout of malaria .
It was directed by Sophie Muller , who has worked with the likes of No Doubt , Beyoncé , Leona Lewis , Duffy and Kings of Leon .
When Cole was a child she won a sponsorship to study at the Royal Ballet Summer School in London and this clip sees the Fight For This Love singer returning to her dancing roots .
A source told The Daily Mirror : `` Cheryl is naturally athletic and has a dancer background so she found the shoot really enjoyable . ''
The song was penned by American songwriter Priscilla Hamilton , Christopher Jackson who has also written for Toni Braxton and British music producer Wayne Wilkins , who previously wrote Cole 's debut single `` Fight For This Love '' .
Wilkins also produced the track .
According to a MTV UK source , the song was actually written before Cole fell sick with malaria .
Said the source in late August 2010 : `` It was actually written months ago and although it 's not directly talking about her illness , there is a strange lyrical twist that ironically relates to her recent near-death experience .
It is similar to the way Fight For This Love related to her marriage drama . ''
This was Cheryl Cole 's seventh chart-topper in the UK .
Her total of # 1s comprised four with Girls Aloud , the Helping Haiti charity cover of `` Everybody Hurts '' and two solo singles .
The song sees Cole singing some of the lyrics in French , referencing the nursery rhyme `` Alouette '' .
Sounds familiar ?
Mark Ronson also borrowed from the French children 's song on his 2010 hit single , `` Bang Bang Bang . ''
