The second single from Big Daddy Weave 's seventh album , Love Come To Life , is a testimony to the power of redemption .
It became the first song from the LP to top Billboard 's Hot Christian Songs chart .
Weaver explained that the message of the song is the understanding of how God 's love for him can redeem his own self-image .
He told NewReleaseTuesday : '' ' I do n't doubt that God loves me , my parents showed that to me and I 've never doubted how God feels about me .
There 's this problem of never letting that translate to how I feel about myself .
I walked around carrying this self-deprecating , self-hating feeling .
I sank into a depressed state .
I remember being in my garage , my man-cave .
One day after a workout , I was hating myself .
I prayed ` God I know You love me completely , but why ca n't I love me ? '
I felt the Holy Spirit invade that space in my garage and He began to deal with my heart .
God began to fill my heart and my mind with the stuff that He likes about me .
It 's unbelievable that the King of the Universe cares about me .
He does that because of the blood of Jesus .
He made me .
He knows me more than anyone else .
He told me He loves my smile and my heart for people .
He put that inside of me .
He broke down that self-hating feeling .
I 've been sharing my story for the past year and it has brought people out of the woodwork , and it dawned on me one night that I do n't feel like I hate myself anymore .
That healing is available to all of us .
We just need to make ourselves vulnerable before the Lord . ''
The song was inspired by lead singer Mike Weaver 's struggles with his self-image .
He explained to NewReleaseTuesday : '' ` I 've been a fat guy my whole life and that 's part of the story of Big Daddy Wave .
That self-deprecating humor is mostly a defense mechanism .
When you have kids you start thinking of life in a different way .
My wife and I also watch the TV show The Biggest Loser .
In 2009 , we came up with the idea for me to lose 90 pounds in 2009 .
I was out sweating every day and losing weight .
Halfway through the year , I lost 50 pounds .
Then into the Fall , I lost 70 pounds .
At the beginning of December , I had lost 80 pounds .
The last day of December I got on the scale and I lost 84 pounds for the year .
That does n't sound bad , it was like losing a middle school kid off of your body .
Truly , there has been this thing in my life , that even missing my goal by just 6 pounds resonated with me that I am a failure .
That 's a ridiculous thing , even as I hear it come out of my mouth , I feel like I failed .
The worst days in my life are the photo shoots for new albums .
The night before the photo shoot , I stood in front of the mirror hating what I saw , and I was harsh towards myself .
The Holy Spirit told me , ` You are mine . '
That led to writing this song . ''
