This song discusses many colors : `` In shiny metallic purple armor ; fiery green gown sneers at the grassy ground . ''
Because of Hendrix ' inability to read music , he would often describe emotions -LRB- and music -RRB- in colors rather than more descriptive words .
Jimi was a very emotional and colorful person , and in this song he really brought out his emotions in a wild imagery that at first glance can be easily misinterpreted .
Originally released in December of 1967 in the UK , Axis : Bold As Love was held over until mid-January 1968 in the US .
The album reached # 5 in the UK and # 3 in the US .
This is the last song on the album , used to sum it all up .
-LRB- thanks , Stone - Libertyville , IL , for all above -RRB- According to his bass player Noel Redding , the music was very spontaneous , but they took 27 takes to finish it .
Take 21 can be heard on their 4 CD set .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The line `` My Yellow is this case is Not so Mellow '' is a reference to the Donovan song `` Mellow Yellow '' and describes Hendrix ' inability to express his feelings to a former girlfriend in any conventional way .
So Hendrix used colors to describe his feelings of fright , uncertainty and frustration .
It 's that frustration that leads him to say at the end of the song : `` And all of these emotions of mine is holding me from giving my life to a Rainbow like you . ''
-LRB- thanks , George - Louisville , KY -RRB- Hendrix rarely played this in concert , but he did on at least one occasion : February 28th , 1968 at the Scene Club , Milwaukee , Wisconsin .
At the show , Hendrix stated that he was about to play `` Bold As Love '' and then improvised after the opening .
Hendrix would often call his songs something other than their official titles .
For example , `` Fire '' would be `` Stand Next To Your Fire . ''
-LRB- thanks , Mike M. , New Jersey -RRB- John Mayer covered this song on his 2006 album Continuum .
Mayer was influenced by musicians of this era , especially Hendrix and Eric Clapton .
As a child , after hearing the song `` Little Wing '' by Jimi Hendrix , Mayer decided to learn how to play the guitar .
-LRB- thanks , David - Reno , NV -RRB-
