The horn-filled opening track from indie folk band Bon Iver 's eponymous second album commemorates the Australian city of Perth .
According to the band 's founder , Justin Vernon , the song was inspired by a `` rejuvenating experience '' he had while the band were on tour there .
Vernon sees the album as one coherent piece , with `` Perth '' representing the beginning or birth and `` Beth/Rest '' the ending or death .
Vernon told Q magazine this was the last track completed for Bon Iver , delaying the album mastering by an extra fortnight in order to make it perfect .
The night he recorded the final vocal alone in his studio , listened to the playback , broke down and sobbed .
Bon Iver consists of 10 songs , each of them named after or describing a place .
Vernon explained to UK newspaper The Guardian : `` We have these intense relationships with our places , and that 's loosely what the record is draped over , '' he said .
Vernon then explained that not all of the places are geographical locations so much as sentiments or states of being .
`` I could go on and on and on about how we use the word ` place ' in so many different ways , '' he said .
`` About how somebody might ask you ` Where you at ? '
And they 're not asking where are you sitting , where are you living , they 're asking : ` How are you doing ? ' ''
Justin Vernon wrote this song after director , Matt Amato , learnt of the death of his best friend , actor Heath Ledger , while he was shooting a video at Vernon 's parents ' house .
Vernon told Rolling Stone : `` So I 've got this guy -LSB- Matt Amato -RSB- in my house whose best friend -LSB- Heath Ledger -RSB- just passed away .
He 's sobbing in my arms .
He ca n't go back to L.A. because the house is under siege .
Michelle Williams is calling my parents ' phone .
All this stuff . ''
Vernon added to Clash Music : `` And his best friend was from Perth .
It just sort of became the beginning of the record .
And Perth has such a feeling of isolation , and also it rhymes with birth , and every song I ended up making after that just sort of drifted towards that theme , tying themselves to places and trying to explain what places are and what places are n't . ''
