This is the opening song and title track from American Country group Little Big Town 's fourth studio album .
Phillip Sweet of LBT told us how the song came together .
Said Sweet : `` There 's a lot that goes on between the four of us to split it equally and share ideas .
For ` The Reason Why ' particularly - and this is kind of a snapshot of sometimes how it works - I think Jimi had started that idea , the melody , and had written the lyric , but had a little bit different take on it .
It was a little bit more of a cocky take .
It was more of , ' I could love you if you want me to . '
It was a little bit more of a taunting more than alluring kind of thing.But he worked on the lyric and brought it to us , and when we came together to write , he was like , ` What do you all feel about this ? '
And we all liked the idea and the melody was cool , and that whole thing - twelve string chunky guitar at the beginning - had a cool feel to it .
But we all collectively just felt like the mood would feel better and it would reflect us more truly if it really talked about the love , the goodness that we 're feeling at this moment right now .
And ' I could go and fall for you and never even try , ' because that was the truth about where Jim and Karen are with each other , where we are in our relationships respectively , in our life with young kids coming into our world in the last two years.And so there 's been a lot of joy and happiness where we 're at in our career and our lives , and it 's just like , Wow , how cool is this that we 're getting to do this and right now we 're having this amazing time and we 're all happy and we 're all friends ; we 're not fighting .
So there 's a lot of layers of emotion there for that song to come out of us .
That 's why it felt like it could have multiple meanings , whether it 's relationship or a loved one .
But it 's being thankful for the things in your life that make you motivated to wake up every day.But that 's where we took that song , just that love approach .
It all starts between two star-crossed lovers , everything comes from there .
So when that 's strong , good things can happen , and that song just felt right for the lyric direction to go there .
It needed a big jangly jam at the end , and we had those lyrics , ` Come on and take my hand , I 'm ready and willing over and over again . '
Just that joy of love . ''
Karen Fairchild of LBT explained to The Boot why the quartet named the album after this cut : `` We were toying with lines from songs or inspirations of what the record could be called .
And then we started talking about ` The Reason Why , ' and we were like , ` Duh !
That sums the whole career up . '
That particular song is a love song on the record .
It 's about being in love and being happy in your life and grateful , and we are all those things .
But ` The Reason Why ' also has different meanings for the band .
It 's always been about the music for us , and that 's really what is always driving us , so that 's the main reason why we 've been a band for 12 years . ''
