This song features a string loop and a Hip-Hop arrangement , making it one of the band 's less Coldplayesque tunes .
Maybe frontman Chris Martin was influenced by his pal Jay-Z with whom he worked on the Prospekt 's March track , `` Lost + ? ''
The song features Rihanna duetting with Chris Martin .
The Coldplay frontman admitted to The Sun that it took him a while to finally muster up the nerve to ask the Bajan superstar to contribute some vocals .
`` The album is designed as a whole piece .
It has boy and girl lead characters and top of our list for the girl part was Rihanna ... but it took a while to pluck up the courage to ask her , '' he said .
`` We did a show in Las Vegas and I met her and said , ` Do you think there 's any chance ? '
I was very Hugh Grant-like and spluttering about it . ''
Rihanna 's guest appearance marked the first time Coldplay teamed up with a star vocalist to appear on an official full-length album track .
Coldplay 's link up with the Bajan star also came out of a desire to keep reinventing their sound and it turned out to be Martin 's favorite bit on Mylo Xyloto : `` When the song came out , it sort of asked for her to be on it .
And I think at this point , we have nothing to lose , and so we 've been trying some new things and trying to break down the perceived boundaries between different types of music , '' explained Martin .
`` Because from where we 're sitting , it seems like you can try and sound any way you like nowadays .
You do n't have to be in a rock box or a hip-hop box or a pop box , and I think it 's fun when you embrace that idea . ''
Lyrically this song finds Martin writing from a female point of view .
He told NME : `` I found that with Viva La Vida , I enjoyed writing from someone else 's perspective to actually get out what I was feeling .
That song is from a girl 's perspective .
I wonder what that says about me ? ''
Rihanna 's vocals surprised Martin .
`` She has such an amazing voice and it 's so different to mine .
When the vocal happened I thought , ` Wow , you sound different ' but I think that 's also because she was singing a different song to what we are used to hearing from her and it is written by a bloke from Devon -LSB- England -RSB- , '' he said .
Will Champion almost ended up singing on the song before Rihanna was roped in .
The Coldplay drummer previously sung on the `` Viva La Vida '' b-side `` Death Will Never Conquer '' during the their Viva La Vida Tour .
Martin told MTV News : `` Well , our new record is sort of a story ; it 's not quite a musical , but it 's dangerously close .
There 's a bit of a love-story thread , so we really needed someone to sing even higher than me , '' he explained . ''
-LSB- It 's -RSB- hard , but very possible .
You need to be a female really .
For all Will 's good intentions , he -LSB- ca n't do it -RSB- ... So , in like a dream scenario , we had a song that I 'd secretly kind of written to see if Rihanna would want to sing it , '' Martin continued .
`` And then the rest of the band wanted to keep it , so we came up with the idea of asking her to sing it with us , and , to our great surprise , she said OK . ''
During an interview with Maxim , Martin said that the track was penned years before it eventually found its way onto Mylo Xyloto .
`` It was when she was doing Rated R , '' he said , `` but it took so long - there 's still this tribalism in music where we 're rock and you 're hip hop , and sometimes it takes a while to get across those barriers . ''
