This track from the Pitch Perfect soundtrack features the voice of Anna Kendrick accompanied only by a plastic cup , which she uses as improvised percussion .
The song serves as her character Beca 's brief audition for the Barden Bellas , an all-female a cappella group from Barden University .
The song debuted on the Hot 100 on the chart dated January 12 , 2013 .
The same week the Barden Bellas ' -LRB- including Kendrick -RRB- film-closing medley `` Bellas Finals : Price Tag/Don ' t You -LRB- Forget About Me -RRB- / Give Me Everything/Just The Way You Are/Party in the U.S.A. / Turn The Beat Around '' also arrived on the tally at # 96 .
A longer version -LRB- a whole 2:09 minutes ! -RRB-
featuring instrumentation was released to radio in March 2013 .
The song is just one minute seventeen seconds long , but is n't the shortest ever to grace the Hot 100 .
The Womenfolk 's version of `` Little Boxes , '' which peaked at # 83 in 1964 , lasts a mere one minute and two seconds .
The origins of this song lie in the 1937 Appalachian Folk recording `` Miss Me When I 'm Gone '' by J. E. Mainer 's Mountaineers .
The tune was reworked by English act Lulu and the Lampshades as `` Cups -LRB- You 're Gon na Miss Me -RRB- '' and this version was covered by Anna Burden , whose adaptation made it to the front page of the entertainment website , Reddit .
Kendrick decided to learn the song after watching Burden 's cover . ''
'Cause I 'm a huge loser , I thought the best way to spend an entire afternoon would be watching -LRB- Burden 's -RRB- video 50 times and teaching myself how to do it , '' Kendrick told David Letterman in October 2012 .
This song 's success meant that Kendrick became only the second artist to have earned both a top 10 single on the Billboard Hot 100 chart , and nominations in the two leading acting award ceremonies .
The singer-actress was nominated for a 1998 Tony Award for featured actress in a musical -LRB- High Society -RRB- and the 2009 Academy Award for actress in a supporting role -LRB- Up in the Air -RRB- .
The only other performer to achieve the same feat is Barbra Streisand .
