Big Garner , North Carolina native Scotty McCreery was born on October 9 , 1993 to Judy -LRB- née Cooke -RRB- and Michael McCreery .
His father was born in Aguadilla , Puerto Rico to a Puerto Rican mother and an American father .
In an interview with Ryan Seacrest , McCreery confirmed that he has Puerto Rican ancestry .
`` Yes , I 'm Puerto Rican , '' said McCreery with a smile .
`` I have a little bit of J.Lo in me . ''
McCreery first picked up a guitar at the age of 10 and often impersonated Elvis Presley .
While attending Garner Magnet High School he joined a vocal ensemble , Die Meistersingers , that performs across the United States .
He started out singing tenor but switched to bass when his voice turned lower in his sophomore year with the group .
At the age of 16 , McCreery won a singing contest called `` Clayton Idol '' at the Clayton Harvest Festival in Clayton , North Carolina.On May 25 , 2011 , McCreery won the tenth season of American Idol .
At 17 , he became the second youngest Idol winner behind season 6 winner Jordin Sparks and the first male country singer to win the contest .
This country ballad is his debut single , which was released immediately after the show 's finale .
While Brett James is a well-known Country songsmith , his co-writers are better known for their pop and R&B tunes .
Ester Dean has penned Hot 100 # 1s for Rihanna -LRB- `` Rude Boy , '' `` What 's My Name ? ''
and S&M '' -RRB- and Katy Perry `` Firework '' -RRB- .
Lil ' Ronnie -LRB- real name Ronnie Jackson -RRB- has produced tracks for such artists as R. Kelly , Britney Spears and Reuben Studdard .
McCreery told MTV News the song is a perfect fit for him . '' '
I Love You This Big ' is great , '' said .
`` It was a great song to start off with and I was so excited when they played that for me in a demo .
I thought this could really be a good one . ''
The song 's music video was shot in an area of Los Angeles called Angels Point and finds Scotty taking part in a summertime barbecue and fireworks show .
`` The location for the shoot was really cool .
If you looked one way , you could see Dodger Stadium , and if you looked another way , you could see downtown L.A. , '' he said .
`` We found this park that had a little country feel to it , and it all worked out ... If I had n't told you that , you would think we would have shot that in North Carolina .
The music video has a summertime barbecue feel , like a July Fourth party with fireworks and hot dogs and families . ''
The sweeping ballad was written by Lil ' Ronnie , Esther Dean and Brett James and was sung as his coronation song during the finale of the tenth season of American Idol .
It finds the 17-year-old country crooner telling a girl , `` I know I 'm still young / But I know how I feel / I might not have too much experience / But I know when love is real . ''
Despite the fact this song and the American Idol tenth season runner up , Lauren Alaina 's , debut single , `` Like My Mother Does '' were penned by different writers , both songs feature big vocal key changes at the same exact moment -LRB- 3:02 -RRB- .
Both tunes do share the same producer - Mark Bright .
The tune debuted at # 32 on Country Songs marking the highest debut for a brand new artist 's first single since the chart converted to BDS data in January 1990 .
Scotty discussed why this song has proved so successful for him : `` It was perfect for the ` American Idol ' moment onstage because it could relate to my family or it could relate to my fans out there who got me through the whole American Idol journey .
We thought it would do pretty good at country radio , too , and we 'd give it a shot , and it did just that.It will always be special to me because it 's my first song .
Once I started singing it in front of crowds , it took on a new life .
I would look up and their arms would be spread open wide when I 'd sing ' I Love You This Big . '
It was just a cool thing to see .
It always puts a grin on my face when I look out there and see their arms open wide and see a husband and wife looking at each other with their arms opened wide . ''
