This is the second single from British rapper/singer Example 's third album , Playing in the Shadows .
The song was premiered on BBC Radio 1 Annie Mac 's Friday show on July 1 , 2011 .
The song was produced by Nero .
Dan Stephens from the English dubstep duo told Digital Spy about the writing of the tune for Example : `` He came down to the studio and we played him a load of stuff that is similar to what we have on our record , which was quite dark and techy , but I do n't think it was quite commercial enough !
In the end we just wrote a big commercial dancefloor track for him , which is what we probably thought he was looking for .
It worked out really well in the end because it 's definitely not a Nero track or something we 'd put out , but it works really well for him . ''
The song finds Example discussing the rights and wrongs of the hedonistic lifestyle that many of today 's British youth participate in .
-LRB- `` If we do n't kill ourselves we 'll be the leaders of a messed-up generation/If we do n't kill ourselves will they believe us if we tell them the reasons why '' -RRB- .
He explained to The Independent : `` It 's about this generation that we 've grown up in , that have been seemingly taking more drugs than ever before .
And drinking more , and spending more money on partying , raving and festivals .
Is it right ?
Does it affect our personal life , or our work ?
Some of the best albums have been written on drugs .
I do n't think enough people talk about it .
It is a bit edgy , but there are kids at 14 now doing things that I was n't .
Taking pills and smoking weed and having sex .
I think because of that people should n't be scared to sing about it , even though I 'm 28 .
I just hate bland music , with no emotion or message . ''
Example told Digital Spy about his collaboration with the Nero duo on this song : `` I went in the studio with Dan first and he just had a small eight bar loop which was just the synth lift .
I rapped over that part and then we sort of structured the song and built it up to where it filters and then added the dubstep drop , the beats and the middle eight .
Then Joe got involved and finished the track and we ended up having version 22 ! ''
