Outkast is a rap duo who go by the names Big Boi and Andre 3000 .
In 2003 , they made a double album , with each member contributing half .
Big Boi 's album was called Speakerboxxx while Andre 's was The Love Below .
This was Andre 's song , and the first single from the album .
This is a very upbeat and energetic song , but according to Andre 3000 , it is about the difficulty in keeping a relationship together .
The album is mostly about the quest for love .
Aaron Mills from the Funk band Cameo was brought in to play bass , but Andre played all the other instruments .
The guitar chords were the first ones he learned .
The girls who respond to Andre when he says , `` Hey Ladies ... '' are actually just one person .
A woman working in the studio was recorded saying `` Yeah , '' and her voice was layered to sound like many .
The video was inspired by The Beatles first appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show in 1964 .
The Beatles came to America and created a frenzy .
During the show , the audience was filled with screaming girls who went crazy for the group .
For the Outkast video , they made it as if an American band invaded England , played a TV show there , and created the same type of frenzy .
The announcer at the beginning of the video is Ryan Phillippe , who has appeared in the movies Cruel Intentions and White Squall .
He was married to actress Reece Witherspoon .
When Andre 3000 performed this on various TV shows , he and 4 dancers would dress with a different theme for each performance .
On one show , they might be tennis players , on another , jockeys .
In the first year Apple 's iTunes music store was online , this was the most-downloaded song .
It was the first song in history to rack up 1 million downloads , making it the first song to achieve Platinum status as a download .
-LRB- thanks , Brandon - Peoria , IL -RRB- The underground UK Indie act Dan Le Sac VS Scroobius Pip reference the song in their 2007 single `` Thou Shalt Always Kill , '' singing `` Thou shalt not shake it like a polaroid picture '' amongst other references to popular culture -LRB- thou shalt not wish your girlfriend was a freak like me , thou shalt not scream if you want to go faster , etc. -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , john - glasgow , United Kingdom -RRB- Outkast were the first group or duo to top the Billboard album and pop charts simultaneously in the 21st century .
Over a four week period in January and February 2004 , Speakerboxxx/The Love Below led the former survey , whilst this song reigned on the latter list .
This was a huge crossover hit , getting lots of play on Hip-Hop , Top-40 and R&B radio stations .
For much of the time this was # 1 in the US , an Outkast song from Big Boi 's album Speakerboxxx called `` The Way You Move '' was # 2 .
Andre wrote the first version of the song around 1999 , and it almost made it onto their 2000 album Stankonia .
At the time the song was called `` Thank God For Mom And Dad . ''
He started working on it again in 2002 , doing lots of experimentation along the way .
A lot of lyrics he wrote for the song did n't make the cut .
Andre is the only male voice on the song .
He did each line over and over , and by the time it was edited together , it sounded like other people were singing with him .
This was finished just in time to be released as the first single from the album .
They were going to put out `` She Lives In My Lap '' when Andre called the record company and told them this was finished and should be released first .
In the video , 8 band members were played by Andre 3000 , including the backup singers known as The Love Haters .
Andre had to play the song through as each character 3 times so they could shoot it from different angles , and was exhausted by the end .
About 100 girls were brought in as extras to play the screaming fans .
Polaroid pictures are instant photos taken with special cameras that spit out the picture right from the camera after it is snapped .
You 're not supposed to shake the picture , but most people did anyway because they thought it would help it develop .
Andre 3000 found a new expression for dancing when he said : `` Shake it like a Polaroid picture . ''
He also helped sell a lot more Polaroid cameras , which had been mostly forgotten since digital cameras became popular .
In the video , the girls shake Polaroid pictures .
Asked by The Huffington Post how the line `` Shake it like a Polaroid picture '' came about , André 3000 replied laughing , `` I have no idea !
In rap , lyric writing is what comes to mind , that was just the visual I had .
And you 're apparently not even supposed to do that .
Same thing with the line about ` all the Beyonces & Lucy Lius ' ... when I was writing , her video was on .
It 's great when that happens , you 're not thinking , you 're just going with it . ''
This was the last performance and the big show stopper at the 2004 Grammy Awards , where Outkast won for Album Of The Year .
They went with an Indian theme , complete with a teepee and dancers dressed like squaws .
The USC marching band came on stage midway through the song and played along .
In 2004 , the London band Razorlight recorded this with the London Community Gospel Choir .
-LRB- thanks , Donovan Berry - El Dorado , AR -RRB- Andre 3000 told the Mail on Sunday October 19 , 2008 that people are always commenting on the green tartan trousers that he wore in the song 's music video .
He explained : `` I designed those before I had my own label - Benjamin Bixby - using fabric I found in my hometown .
I got a seamstress to sew them up for me , and then the year the single came out I started to see more and more green in people 's collections .
I do n't know if there 's such a thing as a royal green , but that 's what I like to call it . ''
