Life should have been good for Biffy Clyro 's vocalist Simon Neil after the worldwide success of the band 's 2009 album Only Revolutions .
However the following few years saw his wife suffer three miscarriages in quick succession , whilst his relationship with the band 's drummer Ben Johnston broke down because of the stickman 's problems with alcohol .
He explained to Kerrang !
in late 2012 how this song represented his state of mind at the time : `` It 's generally about that time last year where I felt like everything was falling apart , '' he said .
`` It 's about trying to give someone something and it 's not helping ; you 're not going anywhere and you 've reached a point where it 's f -- ed .
There are some lyrics about hanging from invisible chords .
It 's not literally about suicide , but that 's the idea - partly about the band , partly about me and my wife ; that idea of ` stay together or end it . ' ''
Simon Neil told NME : `` It was the one song where we did n't know what we were doing so we kept it rhythmically straightforward .
We decided to have a more synthesized element , which is weird for us .
Whenever I hear a rock band using a synthesizer it 's like eek .
But I think this works .
It 's an incredibly personal song about me and my wife and I love it . ''
The song originally had a gospel choir on it , before the band decided to ditch them .
Bassist James Johnston told The Sun newspaper : `` It was a step too far .
We tried different rhythms and different structures .
We always knew there was a great song in there , so we kept working on it .
Having a gospel choir sounded very impressive , but it just did n't really sound like us .
It was a difficult decision to make but we ended up leaving that off the song .
It sounded enormous without it . ''
Neil told Kerrang !
magazine about the difficult experiences that inspire his songwriting : `` I Actually find it easier to write when I 've been going through dark times , or things have been going wrong in my private life , '' he said .
`` With a song like ` Biblical , ' I 've got lots of things flying through my mind , and it 's clichéd but it can be therapeutic . ''
