Roth went to college at West Chester University in West Chester , Pennsylvania , and he loved it .
His experiences there were inspiration for this song , but there 's more to it than you might think .
In our interview with Asher Roth , he explained that he has a beef with the American education system .
Said Roth : `` People took ' I Love College ' as just kind of this superficial dumbed down white kid from the burbs who 's just rapping about getting f -- ked up .
And really , I kind of laugh at all that .
I think that it 's interesting that when things start to go awry with the economy , the first thing that they start to cut is public schools and art , sports and music .
They start to cut those programs .
And it 's like , Wow , okay , those are the few things that are the escape from all this , you know what I mean ?
And it 's like they have this schooling system that 's set up in order just to send you straight to the cubicle and rid you from anything -- any freedom , any real freedom .
And it 's kind of crazy to me.So , with ' I Love College , ' I wrote this record kind of like how it really is .
I mean , these are 18-year-old kids , 18 , 19 year old kids .
When you 're that age , when you 're 18 , 19 , 20 years old , you think you know everything , you think you 're a grown-up , but you do n't .
You do n't .
So you 're just going through the motions .
And college is the first time you 're out of your parents ' house , it 's the first time you 're out and on your own .
I think that it 's a very important time for you to kind of mess around , and make some mistakes , and step out of your comfort zone .
And that 's when you start to grow .
I learned so much more leaving school , leaving that system of wake up , go to class , and do something -- I mean , how many people are even using their major ?
I do n't really get into statistics too much , but I would be surprised if that was over 15 % of people .
Doctors and lawyers are pretty much the ones that are using their majors that they go to school for .
So you 're just kind of in school to be in business , or anything like that .
I mean , my sister set up a school in Flatbush and started a charter school , and there 's only 6 teachers there .
She started the school , and she majored in advertising .
So I just think it 's really all interesting to me .
But that 's kind of where I am in my life right now .
It 's just kind of that question-asking phase . ''
Roth admitted to The Guardian April 4 , 2009 , that this frat party anthem is not representative of the rest of his material .
He explained : `` It 's probably the worst song on the album .
No , it is , they get bummed out when I say it , but that was a chess move .
Sometimes you have to compromise , because you have a responsibility to sell records .
But there 's much more to me than that song . ''
There 's an interesting story behind the guy asleep in the bread aisle of a grocery store in the cover photo of this CD .
Asher told us : `` That 's me asleep in the bread aisle .
It was a Saturday , we were just having a couple of beers sitting on the roof deck talking , and my buddy 's talking to me about how his buddy was really hung over and had to run off .
And he 's like , ` Man , I need to go the grocery store and get a sandwich and some Gatorade . '
Just , ' I need to feel better , I 'm having a tough morning . '
So before he leaves he takes some Tylenol for his headache .
And it turns out to be Tylenol PM , and he falls asleep in the bread aisle of a grocery store .
And they ca n't find him , they have no idea where he is .
And they finally head to the grocery store , they find him asleep in the bread aisle .
And I thought it was hilarious .
`` But there 's also a more serious message behind that cover photo : `` When music and the business kind of converge , it 's not a good thing .
It 's a bummer .
But it 's been that way ever since the church .
We get kind of confused and you start to pay attention , and other things start to influence the music .
And ` Asleep In The Bread Aisle ' is essentially a bread aisle -- ` bread ' being another word for money -- being unconscious to all that , and just doing what feels right , and not making it for any specific person .
Just doing it because you feel it .
And I think it 's extremely , extremely important , and I see it happening , I 'm not the only one doing it , I think I see it all over the map on different genres of people getting back to just making music to make music .
And it 's a shame that we needed the collapse of the music industry , the collapse of labels , to make people realize , hey , this is n't a get-rich-quick scheme.But we 're starting to get back to the real humanistic emotion of music , which left for a while .
So I 'm just happy to be part of that and know that I 'm doing it for the right reasons .
And that 's kind of what Asleep In the Bread Aisl ' was , just introducing people to me in every sense of the word .
That this is who I am , this is how I feel , I might not be your typical ` rapper , ' but that 's where we are nowadays .
I mean , hip-hop is so influential , black , white , purple , whatever , it 's so influential that we are now finding it in crevices like Morrisville , Pennsylvania , where I grew up .
So it 's global now , and I think that we all need to accept that and move forward as one cohesive unit , rather than me , or she , or I , and get rid of all that .
Hip-hop - it 's black music , there 's no argument to that .
Hip-hop is black music .
But if we can kind of get rid of the race thing in hip-hop , I think we can kind of do that on a global level , too .
So it 's exciting . ''
This originally sampled Weezer 's `` Say It Ai n't So , '' from their 1994 self-titled debut album .
However , Roth had to re-work the track when Weezer 's Rivers Cuomo refused to clear it , even after being offered 100 % of the publishing .
You can hear similarities in the two songs , but there is no sample .
Roth told MTV News that he was surprised that this was the record that launched his career .
He said : `` I wrote that song for me , because I 'm sitting on the couch like , ' I love college .
I miss college .
I want to go to college for the rest of my life . '
I wrote that song for me .
The next thing you know , you had a bunch of people who were like , ' I feel that same exact way . ' ''
Asleep in the Bread Aisle is Asher 's first studio album , and this song , the first single , was a runaway hit with the college crowd , with little wonder : the accompanying video paints college as one big party .
