This is a cover of a Bob Dylan song , which was originally included on the singer-songwriter 's 1965 Highway 61 Revisited album .
Way told the story of the MCR 's cover of this song on Facebook : `` Firstly , I 'd like to point out that we have never recorded a song for a film .
We have allowed a couple of our songs to be used in trailers or end-credits , but since we are usually pretty busy with either recording or touring there has never been time to do something like this before , and even this was kind of tight , as we started it before even finishing our last tour .
There have been other offers to do this kind of thing , and usually the timing always made it impossible , but more often than not the project never seemed to fit the band , and we have always passed .
But when the chance came to do a cover of one of my favorite artists , Bob Dylan , for a film version of my favorite work of fiction of all time we had to jump at the chance.Sometimes an interviewer will ask a musician `` What 's the one record or musical experience , like a concert , that made you want to make music ? '' .
Usually people will mention some sort of 7 inch record or a show they saw in a basement that really changed their lives , got them into punk rock , and shaped the way they looked at the world .
For me it was Watchmen .
At 15 years old , just as I was discovering the Misfits Walk Among Us I was reading the first chapter of the graphic novel .
It is the one thing I can pinpoint that shaped my views and aesthetics , even down to the way I dressed at the time , not that I walked the hallways in a stained brown trench coat , but I definitely chose more antisocial articles of clothing , like an army jacket , picked up after watching Taxi Driver for the twentieth time , a film I was lead to by the comic .
So I would definitely say it 's pretty important to me and the band.The talks started about the same time as Projekt Revolution , and I remember getting on the phone with Zack , who was as excited as I was , somewhere in the middle of the desert as out bus rolled to the next venue .
We talked about the comic and he asked what I felt the approach to the song should be , which was to take a cue from Jim Carroll , who is not only the author of The Basketball Diaries but also a musician , and a pretty great one at that .
On his album , Catholic Boy , he has a song called `` People Who Died '' , which I love , as does Frank -LRB- Iero , guitarist -RRB- , as he always includes it in our `` Front Of House Mixes '' you would hear during set-change during one of our concerts .
Zack responded to this approach right away , as he actually used that song to end his remake of Dawn Of The Dead , which I had totally forgotten about , even though the whole band saw it on opening night and loved it .
So the tone was decided upon and then came the length , which initially Zack wanted to be the full version of Dylan 's .
Now , I would consider myself a pretty big Dylan fan , especially after having worked with Scott Allie on my comic , as he really got me into him even more than I was before .
And while I did n't want to alter the song at all , I found that I had to , due to the new approach and the aggressive nature of the cover .
There was simply no way I felt you could make it feel like a trashy punk song and play it for ten minutes ... I think it 's impossible to keep that kind of energy up without either burning out or boring yourself , as anyone will note that most Ramones songs do n't exceed three minutes , and there 's a reason for that .
Down-strummed til your wrist breaks !
Fast and f -- ing hard!So back at a hotel in Arizona I sat in a hotel and did a rough arrangement , which clocked in at around 2:40 , and I paid careful attention to the lyrics , while losing some of my favorite verses I managed to keep the ones I felt were represented by Alan Moore in the comic .
We then started playing the song at sound check , and had so much fun doing it that we decided to play it live , to get warmed up for the recording.We did some initial tracking in Nashville and then just lived with it for a while .
When crunch time came , and after seeing some of the film , I became increasingly unhappy with my vocal performance , and we felt we could get more out of the guitars .
So we asked our friend Rich Costey to help us finish the track and get some new sounds , which he did , in NYC at Electric Ladyland , with the addition of some sweet old Marshall Plexi 's , to get a kind of Sex Pistols tone , and we had a blast .
And that 's pretty much the story of the song . ''
My Chemical Romance covered this song for the soundtrack of the 2009 Zack Snyder movie Watchmen .
Frontman Gerard Way told MTV News that through their version of this song , the band discovered a new recording tactic : Stop thinking and just get busy rocking .
He explained : `` From working on ` Desolation Row ' ... I think it was very natural .
We just kind of did stuff and the song was there .
There was no over-thinking . ''
