The song was inspired by an incident when a humbled Matt Bellamy had to go cap in hand to Goldie Hawn 's house , as she is the mother of his girlfriend Kate Hudson .
The Muse frontman recalled to NME : `` You 've had a fight with your girlfriend and she goes out to her mum 's house for the day and you 're on your own going , ` What did I say ? '
I 'm sure a lot of blokes have that experience in the early stages of relationships where you go , ` Yeah , she 's right , is n't she ? ' ''
Drummer Dominic Howard told Mary Anne Hobbs about the song on Radio Xfm : `` It 's like a very minimal , electronic , almost like a ballad .
It 's something very , very different for us and I guess it builds - like most of our songs really .
It just felt like something very fresh for us , felt like something we 'd never done before so that 's why we thought it would be a good idea to put that out . ''
The song spent an unprecedented 19 weeks at # 1 on Billboard 's Alternative Chart , surpassing the previous record holder , Foo Fighters ' `` The Pretender , '' which spent 18 weeks at the summit in 2007 .
Bellamy told Los Angeles radio station KROQ that he considers this to be his favorite of his songs .
`` I wrote that song having a fight with my girlfriend , '' said the frontman .
`` Nothing particularly over the top but just having one of those moments where she leaves you for the day to think about it .
I rarely write songs that catharticly .
All I had was a drum machine and a synthesizer so I just put this very minimal thing together . ''
`` I was n't quite sure it would work with the band , '' he added , `` but when we started the album I showed it to Dom and Chris and they loved it .
They sort of took it to another level by adding these extra parts at the end and it became a much bigger song .
It 's a real surprise song for this album .
It 's probably my favorite song that I 've ever written . ''
Speaking to the New Zealand Herald , Bellamy said The 2nd Law contains songs about his own private life for the first time since the band 's 1999 debut album Showbiz .
`` We 're singing about things like relationships for the first time , '' he said .
`` Actually , I did that for a bit on the first album , but then I started doing interviews and thought , ` Oh my God , I ca n't answer these questions they 're getting too personal ' .
So that 's when we started getting all conceptual and pretending the album was about the end of the world , or whatever . ''
