This was produced by John Fields -LRB- Switchfoot , Jonas Brothers -RRB- and was written by Cyrus with Antonina Armato and Tim James .
The threesome also wrote together `` See You Again '' for the Hannah Montana 2 soundtrack album .
Additionally , Armato has writing credits for two Billboard Hot 100 singles , Brenda K Starr 's `` I Still Believe '' -LRB- 1988 -RRB- and Glenn Medeiros and Bobby Brown 's duet `` She Ai n't Worth It '' -LRB- 1990 -RRB- .
Tim James has previously worked with Cyrus on the Hannah Montana albums , as well as with Aly & AJ and Vanessa Hudgens .
Miley Cyrus told Ryan Seacrest about this song on his KIIS-FM radio show .
She revealed that this angry number was something that just poured out her during a rare moment alone on her tour bus .
She said : `` The word ` hate ' could describe how angry I am .
-LSB- It goes -RSB- through all the different stages of what 's been going on the past couple years .
It was like a little therapy moment for me .
`` Miley was then asked if she was concerned about possibly offending a former boyfriend .
Disney 's Hannah Montana star replied : `` I want them to be upset .
That was my point .
I was a little worried , but I 'm excited that I just did it . ''
On this song , Cyrus has a go at her ex , who evidently has hurt her really badly and who wo n't provide a `` sincere apology . ''
After listing 7 things she dislikes about her ex , at the end she lists what she likes about him .
The song 's music video was directed by Brett Ratner -LRB- Madonna , Mariah Carey , Diddy , Jessica Simpson -RRB- .
In an interview with MTV News when he recalled discussing the video with Miley during a visit to her home , Ratner inadvertently gave a big clue that this song is about Miley 's former boyfriend Nick Jonas .
He said : `` She had me come out to her house .
She started showing me all of her personal items from under her bed that her ex-boyfriend gave her .
So she pulled out his dirty socks and a bunch of photographs .
The necklace she 's wearing in the video is the necklace he gave her .
She 's wearing his diabetes or medical necklace . ''
Nick Jonas is a diabetic and a committed spokesperson for awareness of the disease .
