This was the first single released by Black Star Riders , a hard rock group who evolved from the touring version of Thin Lizzy , assembled by guitarist Scott Gorham after the death of the band 's leader Phil Lynott .
The lineup consists of ex Lizzy members Gorham , vocalist Ricky Warwick , guitarist Damon Johnson and bassist Marco Mendoza and they recruited experienced drummer Jimmy DeGrasso to complete the outfit .
The song received its first airplay on March 21 , 2013 on Ken Bruce 's mid-morning show on BBC Radio 2 in the UK .
The song was never demoed in any format .
DeGrasso explained to TheyWillRockYou.com : `` It was something that Damon and I had been messing around with in an L.A. rehearsal room the day before we went to the recording studio .
Damon was , like , ` I 've got these chords and I have this idea .
Let 's just jam on this . '
We started messing around with it , and within about thirty minutes , we had this thing pieced together .
We did a little changing here and changing there and I thought it had some potential for a cool song and did n't really think much of it because we already had a lot of material all ready to go .
We took it and tracked it a couple of days later with Kevin -LSB- Shirley , producer -RSB- and I thought it was really starting to sound good .
Then Scott came in and he added a guitar lead .
I was in the control room with Kevin and we both started laughing and then we both said , ` OK , now it sounds like Thin Lizzy ! '
As soon as you put Gorham on it , it sounds like Thin Lizzy . ''
Warwick described this tune 's meaning as , `` a song for the lost but never lonely , walking tall in the face of everyday adversary .
Everyone has a story to tell .
Revolution begins in the mirror !!! '' The song recreates the vintage Thin Lizzy vibe .
Scott Gorham told us : `` I think a lot of that was because we had just come off of basically three years of heavy Thin Lizzy touring .
So obviously that 's going to rub off somewhere along the lines onto the next thing you 're going to do .
So I do n't think it was on purpose that it panned out that way .
It 's just there were a lot of subliminal things that were going on and it just kind of turned out that way . ''
Black Star Riders was named by Ricky Warwick for an outlaw gang in the film Tombstone .
