This R&B rocker was co-written by R&B songwriter Jermaine Dupri .
Cuomo explained to MTV News : `` Weezer is always trying something new .
Last year , we put out The Red Album .
We loved that album , but this is 2009 .
It 's time to do something totally different .
So I reached out to some friends of mine in different genres : Jermaine Dupri , for example , king of R&B , I wrote a song with him called ` Ca n't Stop Partying . '
It was a real challenge for me , taking his ideas , which are very slick , R&B party -LSB- ideas -RSB- , and giving it some kind of edge , some darkness , making it work with rock , making it work with Weezer . ''
Cuomo told Pitchfork Media that Wayne recorded his verse separately , and that Weezy and Weezer have yet to cross paths .
`` He sounds like he 's totally insane , and not just for the sake of sounding crazy .
He 's not trying to sound ghetto or gangsta or intellectual .
he 's just very natural and weird , '' Cuomo said .
`` He really tapped into the spirit of the song , which I really struggled with at first ... He 's rapping about how you ca n't stop mixing drugs and alcohol , but there are a few words he chooses which are surprising and suggest a terrible end to the party .
The last line is : ' I hope the killer does n't take the life of the party . ' ''
Cuomo included an earlier version of this song , without Lil Wayne , on his 2008 solo release , Alone II : The Home Recordings of Rivers Cuomo .
Cuomo recruited the rapper Lil Wayne to contribute a verse .
The Weezer frontman explained to MTV News : `` We got Lil Wayne to come in and do a rap on it .
Any other rapper would 've just done , ` Yay , we 're partying !
Let 's drink and have fun , ' but he gave it the edge I was looking for .
You can hear in his voice , it sounds so dark , like he was gon na get shot or something when he walks out of the studio .
So I was real happy that everyone involved got what we were going for . ''
Cuomo told Musicradar.com that this song might be his favorite track on the album .
He said : `` That was a real interesting challenge .
I wrote it with Jermaine Dupri .
The whole idea was , ` How can I take my rock guitar approach and marry it with hip-hop ? '
The combination of me , Jermaine Dupri and Lil Wayne worked beautifully .
We came up with something none of us would have come up on our own .
It 's probably my favorite song on the album . ''
Dupri told Billboard magazine that he 's been following Weezer 's career since the '90s .
`` I wrote the song ` Ca n't Stop Partying ' one night , and in my mind , I had always been a big Weezer fan , from the ` Buddy Holly ' song they did with that video and Happy Days , '' he said .
`` The things Rivers was saying in that record caught me - ` What 's with these homies dissing my girl ' - he was talking my type of language on a rock record .
It was something that always stayed with me .
`` Dupri added : `` I was in the studio one night and I was on my wild s -- t , like , ' I ca n't stop partying ' - that 's exactly how I felt that night .
Like , ` This is my life .
This is what 's going on . '
So , I recorded myself playing the drums and singing , freestyling , and then I had my engineer put some guitar licks on there .
I immediately got into it and I asked someone to get it to Weezer . ''
