The first single from The Connection , Papa Roach 's eighth studio album , was recorded at the band 's hometown studio , The Red House in Sacramento , California .
The long player was produced by James Michael -LRB- Sixx : A.M. , Halestorm -RRB- and John Feldmann -LRB- Panic at the Disco , The Used , Escape the Fate -RRB- .
According to singer Jacoby Shaddix , the music was written as his wife left him and as he got sober again .
`` I was totally heartbroken and wanted to kill myself , so we wrote some songs and I got through it , '' he said .
Shaddix told Loudwire why Papa Roach chose to release this song about his struggles of trying to make it in music and life as the lead single from The Connection .
`` It is the most important statement for the band , '' he explained .
`` I think it just says a lot about P-Roach .
It 's about my personal life , my highs and lows and what I 've gone through and I 'm a f -- in ' survivor dude .
I 'm a fighter .
I think it 's taking a challenge and I 'm always willing to step up to it and I 'm not going to go out without a fight .
And P-Roach , we 're the band that no matter what we 're f -- ing up against , we 're gon na prevail .
I think we learned that from our early days as a rock and roll band , when every record company told us , ` No , no , no , no , ' we 're like , ` F -- you , we 're gon na keep on doing it . '
It got us to where we 're at now and we 've maintained that hustler spirit , that fighter spirit , that warrior spirit .
And I think it 's just a great statement to put out as the first single on this record .
It 's got the right energy and the right message . ''
A music video for the song was filmed with director David Brodsky .
According to the behind the scenes film , it was Shaddix 's 7-year-old son who came up with the concept for the clip .
The Connection 's cover art was created by artist Android Jones , who guitarist Jerry Horton found .
Shaddix recalled to Noisecreep : `` He 'd done an image we really wanted but he had commissioned it to someone else .
So we said let 's do something original , and so we did .
We wanted them built around four things : the biological , the spiritual , the electrical and the digital to represent all of the elements of the record .
And so the dude broke it down .
I mean , is that not the most amazing album cover ? ''
