Lead singer Rob Thomas wrote this about the time he spent caring for his mother when she was sick with cancer .
Thomas was 12 years old when she got the disease , and she was given 6 months to live .
She beat it , and by the time Rob was 17 , she was healthy and he left home to set out on his own .
-LRB- thanks , Megan - Tracy , CA -RRB- This came together when the band was known as Tabitha 's Secret -LRB- Tabitha was the daughter on the TV show Bewitched -RRB- .
The band played in the Orlando area from 1993 until 1996 , when Rob Thomas , Brain Yale and Paul Doucette signed a record deal and left to form Matchbox 20 .
The 2 members who were left behind continued as Tabitha 's Secret and as a result of a lawsuit , were granted the rights to play and record this song , since they played on the demo of this that helped get Matchbox 20 the record deal .
The song was much slower when they first wrote it .
When Matchbox 20 recorded their first album , they gave it a faster tempo .
Rob Thomas said at his 2006 Cleveland show with Jewel , `` When I was younger I wrote songs all the time and at the time I thought they were great , but recently I looked at all the songs I wrote when I was younger and this was the first song I ever wrote that looking back on I still think is good . ''
-LRB- thanks , Jen - Cleveland , OH -RRB- Thomas chose the time 3 am because it was an hour after the bars usually closed .
The original version of this that helped get the band signed is acoustic .
In 1998 , the 2 remaining members of Tabitha 's Secret released it on their album Do n't Play With Matches .
This version sounds a lot like Matchbox 20 and features Rob Thomas on vocals .
Tabitha 's Secret was allowed to release it , but could n't mention any association with Matchbox 20 or use any photos of the band .
To get around this , they put the names of the 5 members who recorded this -LRB- including Thomas -RRB- on the album cover .
This was Matchbox Twenty 's second hit -LRB- after `` Push '' -RRB- , and very important for the band because it proved they were not a one-hit-wonder .
