Tommy Lee James has a tendency to write darkly .
Jason Michael Carroll has that same tendency .
So when the two of them got together one day and began to write , what came out of that session was an emotionally charged song like nothing either of them had been part of in the past.Jason told us about the session that day : `` I was writing with Tommy Lee James and Terry McBride .
And Tommy Lee and I were sitting in the studio waiting for Terry to show up -- he was a little bit late that morning .
So I was just setting my computer up , and Tommy had set his computer up on top of his keyboard .
And he said , ` I 'm just gon na check my e-mail while we 're waiting on Terry . '
I said , ` Okay . '
And he started playing ... he was checking his e-mail , and he was reading his e-mail , but then he stopped reading aloud and he just kind of played this little melody back and forth as he was checking his e-mail .
And I said , ` Dude , what are you playing ? '
He said , ' I do n't know . '
I said , ` No , it was something like this , ' and I kind of hummed back what he did .
So he kept playing that , and by the time Terry McBride showed up , Tommy and I had the first verse written .
And we decided to go with ` Let It Rain , ' which is a very cool song to me.It 's emotional .
I love to pour emotion into a song .
Especially , it 's easier to do in a dark one .
I 've got a song about my ex-wife leaving me that I 've not really played for a lot of crowds , but it 's got a pretty dark ending on that one .
As a matter of fact , I 've never played it for a crowd in general .
I 've played it for a very few friends of mine .
But yeah , ` Let It Rain ' really came together nicely .
It was just the way the emotions poured out in it .
I mean , you can feel that song when you listen to it .
We get a lot of requests for that song to this day , and unfortunately it 's one of the hardest songs to sing , so if we 're at the end of a run , like after Day 4 or 5 of a 5-day run , sometimes I ca n't do it , because that falsetto part . ''
-LRB- laughs -RRB- -LRB- check out our interview with Jason Michael Carroll -RRB-
