This is a humorous look at the spoils of fame and fortune associated with being a Rock Star .
Walsh pokes fun at the lifestyle of wealth and fame and the spoiled mentality - how it 's not me that 's changed , but everyone else .
In a 1981 interview with the BBC , Walsh explained : `` I wanted to make a statement involving satire and humor , kind of poking fun at the incredibly silly lifestyle that someone in my position is faced with -- in other words , I do have a really nice house , but I 'm on the road so much that when I come home from a tour , it 's really hard to feel that I even live here .
It 's not necessarily me , I think it paraphrases anyone in my position , and I think that 's why a lot of people related to it , but basically , that 's the story of any rock star -- I say that humbly -- anyone in my position .
I thought that was a valid statement , because it is a strange lifestyle -- I 've been around the world in concerts , and people say ` What was Japan like ? '
, but I do n't know .
It 's got a nice airport , you know ... so it was kind of an overall statement . ''
The cover of the But Seriously Folks album shows Walsh eating a meal ... under water .
In the same BBC interview , he said : `` I had to do that a couple of times , but I did go down to the bottom of the pool , and almost drowned ... but it was fun .
Not at the time , but it was fun to do .
We weighted everything down , but it was very involved and it took a long time , and I was real proud of it .
As long as you have access to art , or visually presenting something with your record , I would like to use that , pursue it and try to make it an integral part of the music .
It was hard to do , but when I look at it , I ca n't believe it either , I ca n't believe I was stupid enough to do that , but I was proud of it .
I wo n't be repeating it , I can assure you ! ''
-LRB- see the cover in Song Images -RRB- This is the last song on the the album .
On the original recording from this album , the music fades away into silence .
Then , about 30 seconds later , there is a really funny secret message from Joe Walsh which says `` Wha-oh ... here comes a flock of wanh-wanhs ! ''
, followed by a chorale of `` wannh '' , `` wanh '' `` wahn '' -LRB- collectively sounding like a bunch of ducks or sheep -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , Dave - Marieta , GA -RRB- In 1979 , Walsh announced his campaign for President of the United States , promising `` Free gas for everyone '' if he won -LRB- he did n't -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , Stevie Lee - WSFR , Louisville , KY -RRB-
