`` Romantic '' is a song written by Karyn White with the songwriters Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis .
It was an outstanding hit across the US , fueled by a smoking MTV video.This song is a perfect example of the `` New Jack Swing '' genre .
New Jack Swing kind of fell between the cracks before the rise of Hip-Hop , but it was a blend of R&B and Hip-Hop styles , and the techno sound of club dance music .
New Jack fell out of vogue about a year later when the smoother R&B sounds of Boyz II Men and TLC began to dominate the charts .
Karyn White charted a total of 6 Top-40 hits between 1987 and 1991 , and this was her fifth .
The album this song is from , Ritual of Love , was certified gold and the previous self-titled album Karyn White was certified platinum.Then after that ... almost nothing .
She did have a half-hearted album and a couple of singles released in the mid - '90s , but disappeared .
When tracking down what happened to her , inquisitive fans search in vain only to discover that she quit stardom to run an interior design and real estate business near Sacramento , California .
How you go from being a top-charting superstar on MTV to saying `` OK , enough of that , it 's time to pick out some curtains ! ''
is anybody 's guess .
Because that 's the problem that really needs solving in the world , is all those sloppy living rooms ?
As she confided in this 2012 interview with Soul Train , she just took time out to raise a family and have a quiet home life.Those of you who clicked on that link in the last paragraph are now floored to discover that she 's coming back !
She reveals hidden depths in that interview , talking about how music is helping her reconnect with her spirituality .
Her new album as of this writing is Carpe Diem and due to be released any minute - check this site for more details as they arrive .
And here 's Karyn White 's official website .
She sounds like she has every ounce of talent that made her famous in the first place , all barreled up and ready to unleash fresh .
