The Metal band DevilDriver released a popular cover of this song on their 2013 album Winter Kills .
In our interview with their lead singer Dez Fafara , he explained : `` The lyrics of ` Sail ' really hit home with me .
I 've been dealing with attention deficit disorder my whole life ; I was on medication for it all through my childhood .
So the lyric , ` Blame it on my ADD , baby , ' really set me off .
And then of course , the chorus , being ` Sail , ' I 've been on the road almost 20 years , so that really set it off , as well .
And as soon as I heard the song , it had a great groove , a great catch to it . ''
This is the album 's lead single , which debuted at # 89 on the Hot 100 dated September 3 , 2011 .
It came about during a period in which Bruno and his keyboardist Kenny Carkeet were financing themselves by writing for other artists but found they were making little money .
When they came up with song 's beat Bruno decided to record it himself rather than selling it to another artist for a pittance .
This fueled the fire to form AWOLNATION .
Bruno explained the album title , saying : `` When I write these songs my ideas come out of nowhere and I could n't really explain to you why they happen or how .
If you look at megalithic structures it 's been suggested that there 's really no explanation for where these things come from and why they 're here .
The rock on the cover image is a place I saw in my brain one day .
Hopefully one day you 'll discover it too . ''
The song 's sci-fi music video features Bruno being pulled by a mysterious force before being levitated up to the sky .
The clip was directed by one of the singer 's friends , Cameron Duddy , who appears as a rapper on the band 's song `` Knights Of Shame '' under the name The Gatsby .
Bruno explained the video 's concept to Culture Brats : `` We did n't have a hit song or anything yet , so we got ... I do n't want to say the bottom end of the barrel , but the ideas were n't the best ideas .
It was all cheeseball s -- t like ` and then we 're gon na have this girl who 's a seductress in vinyl and all these flames and s -- t. ' I 'm like , what ?
That sounds horrible .
That sounds like a Puddle Of Mudd video or like a new Metallica video , ` Give me fuel , give me fire , ' that whole scene .
And then Cameron called me one day and was like , ' I got it : you 're abducted by aliens . '
And I 'm like , ' Obviously , that 's the video . '
But we knew we were n't going to have an actual alien in it .
We just wanted to provoke thought and the idea of questioning society and all those fun cliché things that we all like to do .
It was an idea that was n't meant to be taken literally .
I 've seen a lot of crazy conspiracy stuff which I tend learning about as well but the whole idea is just to be searching for the answers of the unknown . ''
The song first got noticed in July 2010 , when the Austin DJ Toby Ryan played it as a staff pick on KROX -LRB- 101.5 -RRB- .
Within a week , listener call-ins made `` Sail '' the station 's most-requested new tune .
Spins elsewhere gradually followed , and later in the year it went viral on the back of a couple of user-generated YouTube videos .
`` Sail '' first debuted at # 89 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart on the week of September 3 , 2011 , before dropping out four months later .
Following its use in various advertisements including a BMW commercial and TV shows the tune re-entered the tally in mid-2013 .
It then undertook a slow ascent up the chart and when the song climbed to # 24 on the listing dated the week ending September 21 , `` Sail '' became the first song in history to reach a new peak after spending more than a year on the Hot 100 .
Aaron Bruno used to leave high school without saying goodbye to his friends because it was easier , so they used to nickname him ` Awol ' -LRB- absence without leave -RRB- .
When Bruno decided to form his own band after being part of major label Californian groups Under the Influence of Giants and Hometown Hero , he decided to name it after his high school moniker .
AWOLNATION released their debut album Megalithic Symphony digitally on March 15 , 2011 , and the physical CD was released two weeks later on Red Bull Records .
Lyrically , the song 's protagonist is wanting to `` sail '' away from his problems , which are overwhelming him , and it seems he is unable to shake off the fear of not being able to meet up to people 's expectations .
In an interview with the Red Bull company , Bruno was asked if the lyrics are about suicide .
He replied : `` Well that 's a dangerous world to talk about .
I do n't condone that but I definitely know what it 's like to feel so low in your life that you wonder what the point is being around .
I 'd say 80 % of people have fantasized about that for a second . ''
Speaking to Toronto.com , Bruno said the song was initially a diversion that took him less than an hour to record .
`` That was written at a time where I did n't know what direction I wanted to go , '' he said .
`` I was sitting at the studio trying to make these little pop songs for aspiring pop artists for chump change , -LSB- with -RSB- barely enough money to buy a bean and cheese burrito .
`` So , he decided to try to come up with something that was quirky and unusual .
`` I came up with the string section part at the beginning , and the song just came to me , '' Bruno explained .
`` I recorded the strings , the beat and the synth -- all within 45 minutes .
My engineer went down the street to get some sodas for us , and by the time he got back , I 'd sung the lyrics and it was done .
It happened so quickly it was almost an accident . ''
Bruno wrote the song before the band had a record deal .
He explained to Artist Direct , `` I was in a studio where I could do something like that with an engineer who was talented enough to help accommodate my ideas at the moment .
I 'm lucky that it came out of me quickly and easily at that time .
I did n't think much about it .
I just thought I had a good song I 'd written , and I was proud of it .
I was going through a dark time so the lyrics are admitting some feelings I was having at the time .
That ended up being the one that opened up everything for us . ''
