This song is about Edwin McCain 's struggle with alcoholism .
It also touches on the superficiality of the music industry .
In our interview with McCain , he revealed precisely how the song came about : `` I went to New York and met up with Jason Flom , who was the president of Atlantic and the president of Virgin and is a huge figure in the music industry .
He was the guy that signed me to my first deal , and a friend to me to this day ... I was with him in New York and got invited to this industry thing by Tom Poleman from Z-100 , he 's a programmer for Clear Channel .
He and I are good friends to this day , too .
I 'd been doing a lot of work , like playing for AIDS patients in the hospital and doing sort of karmic payback .
He invited me to this banquet , and I found myself seated at a table with John Mayer and Jessica Simpson and Nick and Rob Thomas and all the label industry people and their new stars .
And it was just that same old scene .
I do n't know , the lyric popped into my head , ` these organ grinders with their monkeys , and here we are . ' ''
After the banquet , McCain stayed at New York 's The Gramercy Hotel , which helped to influence the direction of the song : `` The Gramercy was the cheapest place to stay .
I mean , it was low-low rent .
And I had to buy a shirt to be able to go to this event , because I did n't have anything good enough to wear .
And I Just found myself laughing at that .
I had been listening to a bunch of Randy Newman , so I had a healthy sarcastic feeling going , and man , that song - the welcome page on the Gramercy on the hotel TV was , ` Hey , welcome to the Gramercy . '
They did n't have any amenities to brag about , they were just like , ` Babe Ruth used to get really drunk in our bar . '
-LRB- Laughing -RRB- It was like a catalog of all these famous alcoholics , and at the time I was struggling with my own alcoholism , and I found it funny .
I was thinking , Wow , what a coincidence .
Me and Babe Ruth have been alcoholics in the same room .
And here I am .
So I was being sarcastic about my own struggles and everything else . ''
`` Gramercy Park Hotel '' contains the line : `` And all the publicists sing ` La di da di da da ' . ''
McCain revealed his own publicist took offense to this mocking lyric : `` At the time , I had this publicist that took umbrage with that .
She was just irritated that I would say that . ''
