This song talks about how the world is a crazy place , but people remain stuck in their routines and refuse to change .
According to the Aerosmith autobiography Walk This Way , the song was inspired by the Los Angeles riots of 1992 , which took place after the white police officers accused of beating the black motorist Rodney King were acquitted .
According to Steven Tyler , those three big drum hits that you hear near the end of this song were made with the bass drum he stole from Roosevelt High School in Yonkers , New York , where he was in the marching band .
Tyler was kicked out of the school after an undercover cop posing as a student busted him for drug possession .
He walked off with the drum after his band played the Roosevelt senior prom .
The lyric , `` If you can judge a wise man by the color of his skin then mister , you 're a better man than I '' comes from the song `` You 're a Better Man Than I '' by The Yardbirds .
Aerosmith recorded The Yardbirds ' `` Train Kept-a Rollin ' '' in 1974 .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Weird Al Yankovic did a parody of this song called `` Livin ' in the Fridge , '' which is about food left in the refrigerator too long .
-LRB- thanks , Cliff - Burkesville , KY -RRB- Joe Perry and Steven Tyler of Aerosmith wrote this song with Mark Hudson , who has had one of the more intriguing careers in the entertainment industry .
Hudson was a teen idol in the '70s , starring with his brothers on a kids TV show called the Hudson Brothers Razzle Dazzle Show .
The Hudson Brothers charted three times with songs they wrote , including `` So You Are A Star , '' which became their biggest hit .
Around this time , Mark married Goldie Hawn and the couple had two children - Oliver Hudson and Kate Hudson - who both became famous actors .
In the '80s Mark hooked up with the producer Phil Ramone and did songwriting and production work in addition to some acting roles -LRB- he was on a short-lived TV show with Geena Davis called Sara -RRB- .
Mark got the gig as bandleader on Joan Rivers ' late night TV show in 1989 , and continued working on the program after it morphed into The Arsenio Hall Show .
When Aerosmith started writing for the Get A Grip album , their record company sherpa John Kalodner set up a session with Hudson , which is where they wrote this song .
Kalodner was a proponent of outside songwriters , which he felt was key to keeping the band 's sound fresh .
Other songwriters who wrote with Perry and Tyler on the album include Jim Vallance , Lenny Kravitz and Desmond Child .
This won the Grammy award for Best Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal .
It was just Aerosmith 's second Grammy - they won the same award in 1991 for `` Janie 's Got A Gun . ''
Edward Furlong , who starred in the movies Terminator 2 and American History X is in the music video .
The clip was directed by Marty Callner , who made most of the band 's videos .
-LRB- thanks , Marcus - Garland , TX -RRB-
