This slow building rocker was debuted by the Arctic Monkeys at their May 2013 Ventura , California gig on the band 's US Tour .
It was released on iTunes on June 19 , 2013 .
The song debuted at # 11 on the UK singles chart , the band 's best placing since `` Fluorescent Adolescent '' peaked at # 5 in 2007 .
Turner told Zane Lowe regarding AM 's direction : `` The record sort of started with ' R U Mine ? '
really .
-LSB- We -RSB- discovered something through the recording of that tune that we thought was worth exploring .
` Do I Wan na Know ' was the first thing we found along that road . ''
The riff was written on Alex Turner 's 12-string Vox guitar .
`` I remember it quite distinctly , because it 's got these effects built into the guitar , '' Ford recalled to NME , `` and I think he actually bought it as a bit of a joke .
But I think it actually turned into a bit of an inspirational instrument !
A lot of the riffs were written on that particular guitar . ''
The song 's music video was directed by David Wilson with animation agency Blinkink and was inspired by the work of risqué cartoonist Vince Collins .
Wilson told NME : `` The video 's very much from inside someone 's brain .
From this perspective it 's kind of Alex Turner 's brain .
A lot of my personal work is very sexually orientated -- I did the video for Metronomy ` The Bay , ' which has got a lady opening her legs and then there 's ` Mind Mischief , ' by Tame Impala , with the teenage boy and the teacher . ''
`` I 'm very conscious of female rights , '' he continued , `` and I feel quite strongly about feminism .
So I 've never wanted to create a piece of work that would de-humanise females .
But at the same time , there 's a lot of fun with embracing the look of the human body .
It 's fun to animate with .
I wanted to embrace that everyone is sexy in their own way , including eagles and hotrod cars . ''
AM came close to having a different title .
Turner explained to NME : `` I got this old Rickenbacker thing that we recorded a lot through .
There 's no knobs , just two holes .
And this little black amp that became known as The New Black .
Crossed my mind to call the album that . ''
Alex Turner told Q magazine about the song : `` We had this idea for a record where you take the compositional perspective of an R&B producer and apply that to a four piece rock 'n' roll band , '' he said .
`` Manipulating our instruments to make building blocks for the song in a way I 'd imagine Timberland or someone constructs music .
That 's one way of looking at it .
The other way is we just made it up !
I had this tune in my head like -LRB- sings the opening riff of ` Do I Wan na Know ?
, ' including drums -RRB- you know what I mean ?
We got a good end of that bargain , I think '' Sonically , the song has a similar guitar riff to the Arctic Monkey 's `` R U Mine ? ''
single but is more down tempo.The neo-psychedelia , stoner rock groove is reminiscent of the Josh Homme produced tracks on their Humbug album .
Speaking with Zane Lowe on his BBC Radio 1 show , frontman Alex Turner explained that he borrowed the AM album title from another band .
`` I actually stole it from the Velvet Underground , I 'll just confess that now and get it out of the way .
The ` VU ' record , obviously , '' he said .
`` Did we cop out ?
, '' he added .
`` Yeah !
Summat about it feels like this record is exactly where we should be right now .
So it felt right to just initial it . ''
Co-producer James Ford told NME that his favorite moment recording AM was when this song came together .
`` I just remember thinking , ` This sums up what we 're trying to do , ' '' he said .
`` It felt kind of heavy - and heavy in mood as well .
It had a weight to it that I really like .
I remember when that came together being really excited , and seeing the picture crystallise in front of me a little bit of where we going .
It was one of the first ones we got done , and it was that thing of it coming together -- I could see the end call from that point onwards . ''
Alex Turner , guitarist Jamie Cook and drummer Nick Helders did their own backing vocals for the song .
Californian female trio Haim were originally asked to do it , but could n't spare the time as they needed to finish their debut album -- much to their dismay .
Este Haim told NME : `` We did n't have enough time to come in and learn the harmonies .
It would have taken a couple of days .
That would have been our biggest dream come true -- to sing on an Arctic Monkeys record .
I remember when ' I Bet You Look Good On The Dancefloor ' came out and Danielle and I watched the video , like , ` This is f -- ing rad . '
It was one of the most painful calls to say no .
Maybe the worst day of my life . ''
Arctic Monkeys became the first ever independently released group to score five consecutive UK # 1 albums when AM debuted at the top of the album chart .
Arctic Monkeys drummer Matt Helders recalled to NME how this song set the path for AM .
`` We went to Joshua Tree for a couple of weeks to do some writing and work on some ideas , and ` Do I Wan na Know ? '
is probably the only song that survived from that session , although not in the form it is now , '' he said .
`` It was really bassy and it did n't have that big chorus -- it was basically just the drum loop .
But it was the one that set the path for the rest of the album , if you like .
It was the one where , after we recorded it , we knew we were really on to something . ''
