Country music singer Frankie Ballard first came to the public 's attention after winning Kenny Chesney 's Next Big Star competition for Michigan in 2008 .
Ballard subsequently opened shows for Chesney at Michigan venues .
After signing to Reprise Records Nashville in 2010 he released `` Tell Me You Get Lonely '' as his debut single .
The music video was directed by American Country music singer and songwriter Marcel , who previously helmed Clay Walker 's clip for `` She Wo n't Be Lonely Long . ''
Ballard discussed the video with The Boot : `` I really enjoyed the process of making the video , '' he noted .
`` I wanted to do it differently than what other people do with their videos .
I did n't think that ` Tell Me You Get Lonely ' should be this big production .
It needed to fit the song .
The song is about being lonely , and it 's a little dark .
That 's what I wanted the video to be like .
I 'm the only person in the video , and it 's not because we could n't afford to put extras in the video ; it 's because it 's about being lonely and you do n't see anybody else in the video .
You get it .
It feels lonely .
I am proud of the video , and I am proud that people are liking it , too . ''
Dallas Davidson and Marty Dodson penned the song .
Though he has in the past always written his own material , Ballard opted to allow Nashville songwriters to fill out his debut album .
`` I get one shot to make my first record , and the fans deserve the best songs that I could possibly find , '' Frankie explained to The Boot .
`` The truth of it is , in a town like Nashville , you 're not always going to write the best song because the best songwriters in the world live here .
The fans deserve the best songs that fit me .
I do have some songs on there that I wrote , but the best songs wins .
My songs are fighting to get on the record just like all the other songs that I did n't write . ''
Ballard revisited the song on his 2014 Sunshine & Whiskey album .
He explained it was , `` a song people identify with me that we 're including as a bonus . ''
