This is the first single by Rock band Panic At The Disco 's third album , Vices & Virtues .
The song was released on February 1 , 2011 and marked the debut of Panic 's new two-man lineup after the exit of Ryan Ross and Jon Walker , leaving as the remaining duo singer/multi-instrumentalist Brendon Urie and drummer Spencer Smith .
The music video was shot in Los Angeles with director Shane Drake , who previously directed the group 's clips for `` Nine in the Afternoon '' and `` I Write Sins Not Tragedies . ''
The clip runs through traditions of mourning and stages a funeral in an alternative universe .
The video 's concept is partly about saying goodbye to the band 's past and bears many similarities to the `` I Write Sins Not Tragedies '' promo , from the church setting to various camera shots -LRB- the dusty top hat resting on a church pew is the same one for `` Sins '' -RRB- .
`` When we were talking about the concept , somebody had the idea to kind of tie in to the beginning of the ` Sins ' video , and we realized it would work with it , '' Spencer Smith told MTV News .
Another nod to the band 's past is that the clocks on the wall are all set to nine o'clock , in honor of their `` Nine In The Afternoon '' video .
Urie came up with the original idea for this song before the band had even started touring on their 2008 album Pretty .
Odd .
He told MTV News : `` It was just sitting in my laptop collecting figurative dust on my hard drive , not really doing much . ''
Urie explained to MTV News that the single and the album are intrinsically linked .
`` Basically , all of the songs , including ` Mona Lisa , ' kind of touch on what the album is called .
It 's called Vices & Virtues , and in one way or the other , at least one to 10 virtues or vices are represented in every song , '' said the singer . ''
-LSB- It 's -RSB- little minor things I did n't know were vices or virtues , until we looked them up .
I was like , ' I do n't know what altruism means , so I 'll look that up . '
Things like logic , pride , vanity -- it can go either way .
So it was kind of interesting to read about that .
And it just made sense , because all the songs -LSB- on the album -RSB- are so all over the place , '' he continued .
`` They do n't sound anything like each other , and it 's like , ` How does this all tie together ? '
and then it kind of made sense .
It was kind of lucky . ''
Urie explained the meaning of this anthemic power-rock ballad to Spin magazine : `` On the surface it can seem like just the story of drama between a guy and a girl .
But it 's really about what I 've been going through , an inner-struggle within myself , and fighting the dualities of my personality - the side that f -- ks everything up and destroys everything and the other side that tries to pick up the slack . ''
