Paula Abdul 's signature song , this was the title track to her first album .
Abdul was a former cheerleader and successful choreographer when she was signed to Virgin Records , who put a lot of resources into launching her music career .
Paula was looking for the Minnesota Funk sound popularized by Prince , and she found it in Oliver Leiber , who was an unknown songwriter/producer living in Minnesota .
His demo of '' -LRB- It 's Just -RRB- The Way That You Love Me '' found Paula when she was choreographing the `` Rich Man '' video for Oliver 's friend Paul Peterson , who recorded as `` St. Paul . ''
After recording '' -LRB- It 's Just -RRB- The Way That You Love Me , '' Oliver worked with Paula on another song : a tune he had written as `` Small Town Girl . ''
In our interview with Oliver Leiber , he told us : `` It was going to be about this girl I was dating from Fargo , North Dakota .
It had a sort of innocence , and was very major .
I played Paula this track , and she really dug it .
She 's like , ` Can you write something for me ? '
And , having spent a little time with her , and in the process of cutting vocals on ` The Way That You Love Me , ' I got a sense of her personality , and this track ended up being ` Forever Your Girl . '
It was the same spirit , a very sweet sort of major-y pop song , so it was n't a large departure to go from ` Small Town Girl ' to ` Forever Your Girl . '
As all of us writers do , you try and crawl inside the artist and assume their personality , and try and write something that feels germane to them .
So ` Forever Your Girl ' was me writing to Paula 's personality and perspective .
I finished that and sent a demo , and they dug it . ''
In 8 seasons as a judge on American Idol , Paula Abdul was by far the most forgiving panelist , frequently finding something nice to say about even the most dreadful performances .
She seemed to understand what the contestants were going through , and they always appreciated her encouragement.To understand why Paula found it so hard to eviscerate contestants Simon Cowell-style , let 's look at her early recording sessions .
The first track she recorded was `` Knocked Out '' in a session helmed by the famous producers LA Reid and Babyface .
Her next sessions were with the unknown Oliver Leiber , first recording '' ` The Way That You Love Me , '' then `` Forever Your Girl . ''
Oliver explains : `` Paula needed encouragement - she struggled with her confidence , and she really needed someone who was very nurturing and very positive .
Paula 's first experience in the studio with a pair of hit producers that I wo n't mention had been very , very discouraging .
They had basically told her , ` You ca n't sing , you can go home , we 're gon na finish this song without you . '
Like , you suck , get outta here , we 'll finish this somehow .
No need to keep singing and no need to come back .
That was her first experience on this record , song number one that she recorded .
She was devastated , because she had confidence issues to begin with , knowing she was n't the strongest singer .
And to have these two very successful producers basically say , ` Do n't bother to come back , ' she was not in a very confident place .
This was the second song they were recording on the album , and they needed it to be a positive experience , or they were going to have a very damaged artist on their hands .
I was fueled with gratitude for having this gig -- it was my first gig -- and also knowing that I needed to be a really positive person .
So , no amount of hours were too long , no amount of takes were too many , and there was lots of cajoling and coaxing and joking .
We were going to get this one way or the other .
`` Paula herself will tell you she is n't the greatest singer , but she certainly had star power .
Leiber adds : `` She 's not the strongest vocalist , and everyone knew that .
But when her voice is put in a certain setting , and when it 's layered , it smoothes out and it has a definite sound .
A lot of people really love the way she sounds on these records .
She 's not Chaka or Mariah or Christina , or any of those women who can blow , but she had a sound on those records that totally worked .
Much like Madonna , she was n't the strongest vocalist , but Paula was a tireless worker .
She flew out to Minnesota with a vocal coach who was present for the vocals on all of the first sessions that I did with her , and if I could n't get a word or a pitch or something , the coach would chime in with various techniques for pitch and breath control to help her sing : ` tell Paula to sing this vowel sound rather than that vowel sound . '
There was a lot of help from this particular vocal coach to warm Paula up and to help her to deliver the vocals .
`` When it comes to Paula 's persona on American Idol , Leiber says : `` I understand where Paula 's compassion and empathy and pathos comes from , because she can so relate to being the person having to work hard and struggle .
She 's got a tremendous amount of empathy for that reason , and the irony was n't lost on me . ''
Like he did with '' -LRB- It 's Just -RRB- The Way That You Love Me , '' Leiber sent this song in completed form to Los Angeles .
Says Leiber : `` Part of the deal that I struck with the studio that let me use their place -LRB- in Minnesota -RRB- , I got the engineer to get a crack at actually doing the mixes , which he did .
And they ended up wanting the same person to mix the whole record , so it did get re-mixed in Los Angeles .
And I was flown out here and I remixed it with Keith Cohen , who ended up mixing the whole album .
So those two songs were delivered and finished in Minneapolis .
I ended up flying out here with the masters and remixing them at Larrabee with Keith Cohen . ''
Oliver Leiber is the son of Jerry Leiber from the famous Leiber and Stoller songwriting team , but if you think he coasted through the business on his pedigree , you 'd be mistaken .
Determined to make an impact outside of his father 's influence , Oliver kept quiet about his famous father and worked his way up , living in a cramped apartment where he created tracks in his bedroom .
The track that formed the basis for this song was a happy accident .
Says Oliver : `` That was a three-chord idea that came about by trying to show one of my five roommates what a sequencer was .
It was very new back in ' 84-5 , and I was showing him how you could record into the computer .
So these three chords came out , and that became the basis of a track . ''
The video was directed by David Fincher , who also directed the promos for `` Straight Up '' and `` Cold Hearted . ''
A very young Elijah Wood , who was 8 years old at the time , was one of the children who appeared in the video .
Wood would later go on to appear in films as a child star such as Radio Flyer , Forever Young , The Good Son and North and then as a teen and adult in The Ice Storm , Deep Impact , The Faculty and The Lord of the Rings trilogies .
Trevor Wright and Nikki Cox also appeared in the video .
The Forever Your Girl album did take seemingly forever to top the album chart .
The LP spent a record-breaking total of 64 weeks from entering the Billboard 200 before it reached # 1 .
