This was the first # 1 hit song with a rap .
Artists like Grandmaster Flash , Afrika Bambaataa , and Kurtis Blow had been rapping since the mid - '70s , and The Sugarhill Gang had the first Top-40 hit earlier in 1980 with `` Rapper 's Delight , '' but until this , rap had never been incorporated into a hit Pop song .
Debbie Harry did the rap , and it was really ridiculous , with lyrics about the `` Man from Mars eating cars , '' but the novelty helped the song become a hit.Harry 's rap is so goofy that it sounds like she could be mocking the genre , but this was very early in the evolution of Hip-Hop , and many of the rhymes that came out of the New York block parties were just as silly .
Harry and Chris Stein of Blondie championed rap and got involved in the community , often attending these block parties - they even took Nile Rodgers to one , which is where he learned that his song `` Good Times '' was a DJ favorite .
Blondie brought rap to a far larger audience with this song ; Debbie Harry says that a lot of rappers told her it was the first rap song they ever heard , since rap was n't on the radio then .
In certain Christian theology , The Rapture is an event where believers are transported to heaven while others must endure the beginning of the end times on Earth .
The lyrics of this song are a bit apocalyptic , as the `` Man from Mars '' starts destroying the planet with his insatiable appetite .
The word `` Rapture '' is also a play on the rap aspect of the song .
If you listen carefully to the lyrics , you might hear something naughty .
Shortly before the rap , there is a line that sounds a lot like `` Finger F -- king . ''
Most lyric sheets list this line as `` Finger Popping . ''
The video for this features a cameo appearance by New York artist/Andy Warhol disciple Jean-Michel Basquiat , whose life was portrayed in the 1996 film Basquiat .
Until this came out , rappers always used existing songs as the basis for the music they would rap over .
They usually took Disco or Soul records and looped the beats to extend the breaks .
Debbie Harry 's rap in this was nothing special , but it was the first rap in a song that had its own original music .
As the age of Disco ended , so did Blondie 's success .
This was their last US hit until 1999 , when they had a comeback song called `` Maria . ''
They did have another UK hit in 1982 called `` Island Of Lost Souls . ''
Hip-Hop promoter and former host of Yo !
MTV Raps Fab 5 Freddie is in the video and is mentioned in the song .
He was part of the early rap scene and is credited with helping bring it into the mainstream .
Blondie originally met Fab Five Freddy and his crew at a club .
They all became friends , and one day Freddy jokingly suggested that Debbie Harry should write a song about them .
She did , and the result was the rap that is the second half of the song .
She sent it to Freddy , he and his crew loved it and she ended up recording it .
The lyrics , `` Flash is fast , flash is cool '' are a reference to pioneering Hip-Hop DJ Grandmaster Flash .
