A tormented Allan tells us that the pain is still there on this honest self-examination .
This was one of five tracks on Set You Free that were produced by Jay Joyce -LRB- Eric Church , Cage The Elephant , Little Big Town , The Wallflowers -RRB- .
Allan admitted to Billboard magazine having some butterflies when going into the studio with the versatile and mysterious producer .
`` I felt like I was making my album in the basement of a college kid 's house with no money , '' he said .
`` He works out of his house , and all the tracks were bleeding into each other .
I thought ` What are we doing in here ?
My manager called me , and asked me what I thought .
I said I had no idea .
It was n't until the third day until I realized that he does it like nobody else .
He 's like a mad scientist and is very creative .
He forced me to play , and I had n't played on any of my tracks .
He just keeps shoving things at you .
He gets you out of your comfort zone .
I 'd definitely work with him again , but it was like nothing I have ever done . ''
The song went through a metamorphosis to reach its end state .
Degges traveled to Nashville 's Belle Meade neighborhood to write at the home of songwriter Jim Daddario -LRB- Collin Raye 's `` Love Remains '' -RRB- , whose frequent co-writer , Greg Barnhill -LRB- Trisha Yearwood 's `` Walkaway Joe '' -RRB- was there as well .
As the day unfolded , the three songsmiths found themselves in a discussion about addiction and began considering how alcohol is actually a symptom for some underlying issue .
`` We all kind of agreed that the root of the problem , when they can fix that , would take care of a lot of stuff , '' recalled Barnhill .
`` We used a girl as the catalyst for that , and we just started writing a song .
It was the truth -- it ai n't the whiskey that 's killing me , it 's the thing that 's causing it . ''
The trio used the opening line to identify a 12-step setting -- `` I stood there in the middle of the church of the broken people '' -- and basically worked from the first line to the last , the entire story taking shape with a surprising ease .
`` I was playing chords and rocking out on -LSB- Daddario 's grand -RSB- piano , because that 's my main instrument , '' said Degges .
`` Next thing you know , two hours later we have this song . ''
Jay Joyce insisted Allan play the guitars on `` Whiskey , '' the first time he 's done that in the studio .
That 's Allan playing the lonesome acoustic guitar at the start of the song , as well as the angst-filled solo , using a Big Muff pedal that was particularly popular among alt-rock acts during the 1990s .
`` I brought my guitars in , plugged in and turned it up as loud as it would go , '' said Allan .
`` I created a monster , because he just started blazing , '' added Joyce .
`` The walls were throbbing , and it went on for hours like that .
I was toast for the rest of the day -- could n't hear anything . ''
The black-and-white video features the lamenting singer numbing his pain with a near-constant drink in his hand , paired with a narrative about a loss of love .
The clip was shot at the Downtown Presbyterian Church in Nashville .
`` It was a lot of fun to shoot .
We shot it in Nashville , and I believe if the story is right , the building was like a Confederate hospital .
It 's really cool , '' said Allan .
`` It 's a church now , and it 's got like artist lofts above it .
I was able to get the band in there . ''
Cole Degges of Cole Deggs & the Lonesome originally wrote the song when he was working on the band 's 2007 eponymous album .
`` Whiskey '' was n't included on the final tracklisting , and was lost in the shuffle as Degges bombarded the label with potential material .
`` I was writing so much at the time that I would take six new songs a week and play them for my A&R staff , '' he recalled .
`` It was one of those songs that maybe did n't quite fit in , did n't go with what we were going with on the record .
Then you wake up one morning and find out one of your favorite artists is cutting it . ''
The song laid around for several years until a new publisher decided to pitch it to the A&R department at Universal Music Group , which immediately identified it as a potential Gary Allan song .
Allan played it on acoustic guitar periodically in concert , and it always got a major response when he pulled it out , so he decided to record it for Set You Free .
The song provides a special moment in Allan 's live shows .
`` I love heart-wrenching songs and songs that really make you think ; they 're my favorites , '' he said .
`` It 's a 12-step song , but it 's so poignant .
I 've been playing that one live by myself .
We take a break in the show , and I just play that acoustically .
We 've been doing that one forever , way before we cut it .
It 's just a great song .
I wish I wrote that one . ''
