This is a novelty song inspired by the CB radio craze of the mid - '70s .
The story of `` Convoy '' was told in CB jargon and with a Country and Western -LRB- the `` C.W. '' -RRB- twang .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England -RRB- This hit # 1 on both the Pop and Country charts , and a national craze was born .
There was a serious side to this song .
It dealt with the struggles truckers were facing with restrictive speed limits , tolls , bureaucracy and fuel costs .
Some of the CB terms used and their meanings : Got a Copy - do you hear me?Jimmy - a GMC truck .
GMC no longer builds class 8 trucks.Headin ' for bear - coming up on a police blockade .
`` Bear '' is the CB slang term for `` police .
`` Shakeytown - Los Angeles , CaliforniaPut the hammer down - speed upTulsa-town - Tulsa , OklahomaSmokies - highway state patrol officersBear in the air - police helicopterTen-nine -LRB- 10-9 -RRB- - repeat messageSwindle Sheets - truckers ' logs .
Truckers have to keep logs of what they were hauling .
These `` swindle sheets '' must be presented to Department Of Transportation officers on request.Chi-town - Chicago , IllinoisChicken Coop - weigh stationLonghaired friends of Jesus - hippiesMicrobus - Volkswagen Microbus .
Very popular vehicle among the hippies during the 1960s and 1970s .
Another popular song that mentions the Volkswagen Microbus is `` Alice 's Restaurant Massacree '' by Arlo Guthrie .
`` Keep the bugs off your glass and the bears off your ... tail '' - The real phrase is `` keep the bugs off your glass and the bears off your a ** '' .
A typical CB sign-off that means to drive carefully and watch out for speedtraps .
`` What 's your twenty ? ''
- `` Where are you ? ''
`` Catch you on the flip-flop '' - `` I 'll talk to you on my return trip -LRB- on the way back home -RRB- . ''
-LRB- thanks , Patrick - Tallapoosa , GA -RRB- C.W. McCall is a character created by songwriter Bill Fries .
While he displayed musical promise as a child , he was more interested in graphic design .
While attending the University of Iowa , Fries studied music and played in the school 's concert band , but his major was in fine arts , and after graduation he began handling the art chores at an Omaha , Nebraska television station .
After 5 years there , he was hosting his own program , where he drew caricatures of celebrities .
Fries signed on as the art director for an Omaha advertising agency in the early '60s , and it was there that he created the character C.W. McCall as a selling tool for an area bakery .
A trucker for the fictional Old Home Bread company who spent much of his time in a diner called The Old Home Filler-Up-an ' - Keep-On-a-Truckin ' Cafe , the McCall character was a huge hit with viewers , and the radio campaign won Fries the advertising industry 's prestigious Clio Award .
In 1974 , Fries decided to cut a record under the McCall moniker , and the single , a monologue with country backing titled after the aforementioned cafe , became a hit .
A follow-up single , `` Wolf Creek Pass , '' was even more successful .
Sam Peckinpah made a 1978 movie based on the song starring Kris Kristofferson and Ally McGraw .
By the time the movie was released , however , McCall 's music career was largely over .
He released two more albums , but in 1977 , McCall turned his back on the music industry to focus on the burgeoning environmental movement and moved to the small town of Ouray , CO. .
He was elected mayor of the town in 1982 .
An attempt at a comeback in 1990 proved unsuccessful .
-LRB- thanks , Bob - Knoxville , TN , for above 3 -RRB- `` Old Home Bread '' was a real bread company in Iowa , where the ads were broadcast .
They were filmed in Pisgah , a small town in the Western part of the state .
-LRB- thanks , Scott - Eugene , OR -RRB-
