This song was originally written and recorded by Suicide under the title of `` Keep Your Dreams , '' for their 1977 debut EP .
The electronic protopunk duo remade the dark , electronic tune two years later under the title of `` Keep Your Dreams , '' and released as a non album single .
It found a fan in Springsteen , who transformed it into a warmer and more optimistic version , which he performed a solo keyboard version to close the concerts on his 2005 Devils & Dust tour .
The track later resurfaced as the soundtrack to a video released in October 2013 as a thank you to Springsteen 's fans for supporting the 2012 and 2013 Wrecking Ball tour and then was included on his 2014 High Hopes album .
Alan Vega commented of Springsteen 's cover in an 2005 interview with Backstreets Magazine .
`` A lot of bands have done my stuff , Suicide stuff , and they basically try and copy and do it the way that you do it , '' he said .
`` He just - thank god !
- finally somebody did their version of it .
They interpreted my song , he did it his way , and such a great way , that I 'm going to have to sing it that way , or not sing it at all any more ! ''
Aniello told Rolling Stone about the recording process for High Hopes at Springsteen 's home studio .
`` Each day he 'd give me a list of things and I 'd write them down , '' the producer said .
`` When he starts talking , I start writing .
Then I try to distil what his advice is about the song to make it work for him .
We play the song again and get it to a place . ''
`` Take the song ` Dream Baby Dream , '' he added .
`` I had some versions of the song and he was like , ` That sounds good , but it 's not quite there , ' or ` It 's good .
You 're really close . '
Then the next day he 'd be like , ` Ah , it 's terrible .
Throw it out . '
I was like , ` Come on , love this song .
I got ta deliver this song for you . '
We went over and and over it .
You never know what he 's thinking .
It 's not like when he was 21 and he 'd go 16 hours in the studio without eating .
He does n't have to do that now .
He has a home studio and it 's quite comfortable for him . ''
Suicide have been recording intermittently active since 1970 .
A flyer the band circulated in November of that year was the first ever to use the phrase `` punk music '' to advertise a concert .
Alan Vega 's vocals were backed by a primitive drum machine and Martin Rev 's fuzz organ and their nihilistic attitude and lack of guitars often aroused bewildered reactions amongst their audiences .
Despite their lack of popularity amongst the general public , Suicide 's albums of the late '70s and early '80s are regarded as highly influential by music critics , having helped shape the direction of indie rock , industrial and dance music .
High Hopes producer Ron Aniello admitted to Rolling Stone that he did n't know this was such a well-known song .
He recalled : '' -LRB- Bruce -RRB- played me the thing and said it was an experience more than anything at the end of his Devils and Dust shows .
It took a lot to get that experience on a record for him .
We had to do that song probably 10 times -- different versions of it -- until he was satisfied it was the right version . ''
