Leeland is an American Christian rock band from Baytown , Texas , who formed in 2004 naming themselves after lead singer Leeland Mooring .
In 2006 they released their debut album , Sound of Melodies , for which they received a Grammy Award nomination and two Dove Award nominations .
In 2010 the band co-wrote Stronger -LRB- Back On The Ground -RRB- on Nick Jonas & the Administration 's debut album .
This track is the second single from Leeland 's third album , Love Is On The Move and is based on the verse in 2 Corinthians 5 v 17 , in which Saint Paul wrote `` Therefore , if anyone is in Christ , he is a new creation .
The old has passed away ; behold , the new has come . ''
Leeland told the story behind the song on their blog : `` This song actually came as a last minute idea in the studio and now it 's one of my favorites on the record .
Our last single , Follow You , talked about God 's heart for the poor and hurting , and that our response MUST be love & action .
New Creation , just like Follow You , is based on the same foundation of the gospel .
That when we receive Jesus 's salvation , we die to sin and are born again , a new creation into Jesus .
A clean slate !
Before Jesus , our identity wavered from one passion to the next .
We staked who we were into what we did .
If you played baseball you were a ` Baseball player ' .
If you played guitar you were a ` Guitar player ' .
If you were a popular then you were ` Star ' .
If you were good at plumbing , then you 're a ` Plumber ' .
In the old life , that view of thinking seemed right .
But what if the baseball player was injured so badly that he could never play baseball again ?
What if new famous singer came along and replaced the old one ?
What if the plumber lost his job ?
If we place our identity in what we do it 's like building our house on shifting sand !
Now if we believe in Jesus and that he is the way , truth and the life , then no one can take that hope and assurance away from us.Nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus .
Now that we 're are a new creation in Jesus , no matter what season of life we 're in , who we are remains the same because we are new creations IN Christ Jesus !
Jesus is above every name and every thing , He is the same yesterday today and forever !
Now that we are IN Jesus , we do n't rely on our own righteousness , because HE is our righteousness .
We do n't rely on our love , because God is Love !
We do n't rely on our peace , because Jesus said ` My peace I give you . '
We do n't rely on our strength because Jesus said ` In your weakness I am made strong ! '
It is no longer I who live , but Christ who lives in me !
What would you do if you got to start all over again ?
Well , this is your chance .
You 're a new creation . ''
