This Country-Pop tune is the second single from Zac Brown Band 's 2010 album , You Get What You Give .
The song was written by lead singer Zac Brown , his usual songwriting partner Wyatt Durrette , the band 's keyboardist and guitarist Coy Bowles and Georgia singer-songwriter Levi Lowrey , who has performed as supporting act for the band and featured on many their projects .
Wyatt Durrette told the story behind the song in an interview with The Boot : `` There was a girl I was seeing , who lived in Kansas City .
We really liked each other , but geography and timing just was n't working for us .
She was getting pretty frustrated with the whole thing and wanted me to slow down , as far as traveling so much and all those things .
I was n't willing to do that because we were just getting started , and I 'm chasing my dreams.I was going to see her .
We were in Green Bay , Wisconsin playing a show with Little Big Town , and it was pouring down snow .
We were supposed to go to Kansas City the next day for some radio thing , but the radio people canceled .
Instead , we just went on to wherever we were going next .
I had to call her and tell her that I was n't going to make it .
She was not a happy camper .
She let me have it .
I hung up the phone , walked on the bus and wrote the chorus and the melody to the chorus.Me and Zac worked on the first chorus together .
I knew the song was special .
You can just tell as a writer when you 've written something that has a chance to be big or special .
I knew that one was.I sat on the song for six months after that .
I did what I always do : sing it to the guys and say , ` What do you think of this ? '
And they 'll go , ` Oh yeah , that 's great !
` Levi Lowrey is one of the best artists I know .
He 's a poet .
I felt like this song needed the way he wrote , so I invited Levi over to my house one night and we wrote the rest of the verses .
It turned out great .
It was so weird because that same night , Coy , our guitar player , stopped by .
He was just coming by my house to say hey .
He did n't know we were writing .
He sat down and was listening to us write the verses , and he said , ` How about a bridge ? '
He read one to us , and we were like , ` Hell yeah !
That 's perfect ! '
-LSB- laughs -RSB- So we stuck that in there , and I brought all that to Zac .
Zac and I finished writing the alternate chorus in the end.That one 's special to all of us .
It holds a spot because of what we do and being away and all those things .
For those guys , I think that song rings on missing their family .
That 's the beauty of art : everybody has their own take on what the song can mean .
As for me , it 's a story of impossible love where geography or timing gets in the way of it , and it 's just not possible . ''
Close to a year before he popped the question to Miley Cyrus , Australian actor Liam Hemsworth appeared in the song 's haunting music video portraying the male character who temporarily leaves his girlfriend during the winter .
Hemworth is best known for playing Gale Hawthorne in The Hunger Games film series .
The song tells the tale of a traveling musician who heads back on the road chasing his dreams .
In doing so he leaves behind the woman who loves him .
Later on , he starts having second thoughts and returns to her but it is n't long before the urge to roam overtakes him again .
ZBB fiddle player Jimmy De Martini told The Orange County Register : `` It 's more of a ballad , but it gets really big towards the end .
It 's about the life that we live now -- leaving loved ones to be gone on the road , and -LRB- how -RRB- some people have trouble holding on to relationships and some people miss being home .
It kind of goes through what a musician and traveling person goes through .
It 's one of my favorites . ''
The song climbed to the top of the Country chart in April 2011 , giving the Zac Brown Band their fifth # 1 .
