This is about having sex in a car : `` Roll these -LRB- misty -RRB- windows down . ''
Lead singer Chino Moreno -LRB- on Maynard 's appearance -RRB- : `` Having Maynard perform on the record was n't something that we planned on doing .
We did n't plan on having any guest on the record .
But being a fan of Tool and A Perfect Circle , once Maynard was involved , it was just a magical thing for us .
Honestly , when he first started working with us , he was n't supposed to sing with us .
He was just working on the arrangements , riff structures , time signatures , and things like that .
I do n't know if you 're a big fan of Tool 's music , but they 're really mathematical .
I 've been to their rehearsal space , and there 's this big chart that just looks like calculus -- the way they write songs , it 's just crazy .
It was good to have someone else who has different ways of writing songs , 'cause everyone has a different way of doing it .
He came in and we started working on this one song in particular , and he just grabbed the microphone and started singing along to it , and my jaw just dropped .
All of a sudden our band sounded like Tool ; it was just crazy .
Then , probably two months later , we went in to record the album , and I went in to record the vocals on it , and I just kept hearing his voice , this re-occurring melody with his voice coming over it .
So I called him and asked him if he wanted to come down and sing on the record , and he had no problem with it .
Once he came in , I gave him sort of what I wanted the song to be about , and he wrote a couple of ideas down , and the next day he came in with all the lyrics written all out with blank spaces where my lyrics were supposed to be .
He 's very professional like that .
He wants everything set perfectly , which is the complete opposite to the way that I write , so it was cool .
And then I went in and did my vocals over it , and it just seemed that our voices blended together pretty good .
Yeah , it came out pretty good , so we decided to put it on the record . ''
-LRB- thanks , Tim - Pittsburgh , PA -RRB- This features Maynard James Keenan - lead singer of Tool and A Perfect Circle .
-LRB- thanks , Ryan - Rosemount , MN -RRB-
