This loving tribute to Carrie Underwood 's mother was written by the American Idol star along with Nashville-based songwriter Luke Laird , rock/pop writer/producer Marty Frederiksen and pop hitmaker Kara DioGuardi .
Laird collaborated with Underwood on three other songs from Play On , the title track , `` Undo It '' and `` Temporary Home . ''
He also co-wrote her hit singles , `` So Small '' and `` Last Name . ''
This song talks about finding the right guy for mama 's little girl .
It is the most personal of the seven tracks Underwood co-wrote for the album and the presence of her boyfriend , Ottawa Senators center Mike Fisher , can be felt on the song .
Laird commented to The Associated Press : `` I think a lot of girls around her age are thinking about getting married .
I think that was probably easier for her to write - not that she 's thinking about getting married .
I would n't know . ''
It should be noted that this song was written at a time when Kari DioGuardi was planning her wedding , without her mother , who passed away in 1997 .
Laird told The Boot the story of the song : `` We wrote this song on the same day as ` Undo It . '
We were in Los Angeles at Sunset Marquis Hotel ... about two years ago .
I got this call from Carrie 's management , and they were like , ` Hey , do you want to go out L.A. and write with Carrie ? '
I was like , ` Well , yeah .
I 'd write with Carrie in Dothan , Alabama .
if I have to ! '
-LSB- laughs -RSB- She was already booked to write with Kara and Marty ; I do n't know why I got invited , maybe just because Carrie and I had written together before and she felt comfortable with it or something.We got out there , and Kara came in the first day with the idea of ` Undo It . '
We wrote it , and everybody was like we 've got time , let 's do another one .
We figured that we wrote this cool , rockin ' , uptempo thing , let 's shift gears .
So Marty and I started playing that slow musical thing .
Kara and Carrie seemed to be into it .
Carrie just came out with that first line , ` Mama , you taught me to do the right things . '
And this was before she was engaged , obviously , but she was in a relationship .
We knew where this was coming from .
Nobody was like , ` Oh , are you and Mike -LSB- Fisher -RSB- going to get married ? '
We just went with it , and thought it was something cool to write.It was real special for Kara , too , because she had lost her mom ; you could tell they were really close .
You could see Kara and Carrie bonding , talking about their moms .
For me , I was coming from the place where I was n't engaged to -LSB- my wife -RSB- Beth yet , but I was thinking , ' I hope she feels this way about me ! '
-LSB- laughs -RSB- It was just a really good co-write .
It did n't feel forced or anything .
I love that we wrote a song like ` Undo It , ' and then went right into something like ` Mama 's Song . '
That 's the thing about writing songs ; you just do whatever you want to do and whatever you feel.Beth 's mom thinks that 's the best song I 've ever written because she 's a mom and her daughter married me .
I played it for Beth 's mom in the car , and she was all teary-eyed .
It was cool . ''
In this song , Underwood thanks her mom for teaching her some important life lessons .
She told Billboard magazine : `` I really am in a good place in my life and I think that does show . ''
This is one of two songs on Play On on which Kara DioGuardi has a songwriting credit , -LRB- the other one being `` Undo It '' -RRB- .
CMT News asked Underwood if there was there a time where DioGuardi came out with a lyric and you thought , `` How 'd you come up with that ? ''
She replied : `` Well , she 's a little bluesy .
She 's got this different thing about her voice .
Her phrasing and my phrasing are completely different , which was really good because my motto is that I can make anything fit .
I can make as many words as you need fit .
I can find a way to get them in that line .
And she 'd lay back a little more and could figure out other ways how to say things instead of doing it like I do and cram in stuff all weird .
But it really worked between the two of us .
I think we have a lot of the same vocal range , too .
And that helps , too , because sometimes when you write with just men , they do n't understand .
Like , ' I ca n't sing that an octave higher , and I ca n't sing it where you 're singing it , so we 're going to have to work something out . ' ''
