This was originally recorded by Los Angeles band The Leaves in 1965 .
Their lead singer was bassist Jim Pons who joined the Turtles just before they recorded their Happy Together album .
-LRB- thanks , Rick - Lafayette , NJ -RRB- The version that inspired Hendrix to record this came from a Folk singer named Tim Rose , who played it in a slow arrangement on his 1967 debut album .
Rose was a popular singer/songwriter for a short time in the Greenwich Village scene , but quickly faded into obscurity before a small comeback in the '90s .
He died in 2002 at age 62 .
This was the first single for Jimi 's newly formed group , The Jimi Hendrix Experience .
This was released in Britain with the flip side `` Stone Free , '' which was the first song Hendrix wrote for The Jimi Hendrix Experience .
Hendrix , performing under the name Jimmy James in the group Jimmy James and the Blue Flames , was seen playing this in a New York cafe by former Animals bass player Chas Chandler , who knew instantly that Hendrix was the man to record it .
Chandler became a producer and manager for Hendrix .
This was one of 5 bonus tracks added to the album Are You Experienced ?
when it was re-released in 1997 .
The only song on the album not written by Hendrix , it is credited to Billy Roberts .
While Jimi 's version is the most famous , this has been recorded by over 400 artists .
Before Hendrix cut his version in 1966 , it was recorded by Love , The Byrds , Tim Rose , Leaves , Shadows of Knight and Music Machine .
Since then it has been done by Mothers Of Invention -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , Cher -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , Deep Purple -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , King Curtis -LRB- 1968 -RRB- , Wilson Pickett -LRB- 1969 -RRB- , Roy Buchanan -LRB- 1973 -RRB- , Patti Smith -LRB- 1974 -RRB- , Walter Trout -LRB- 2000 -RRB- , Popa Chubby -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , Robert Plant -LRB- 2002 -RRB- .
-LRB- thanks , Gary - Thetford , England -RRB- The phrase `` Hey Joe '' is something men in the Philippines often shout when they see an American .
Ted Lerner wrote a book about his experiences there called Hey , Joe : A Slice Of The City-An American In Manilla .
6,346 guitarists played `` Hey Joe '' simultaneously in the town of Wroclaw , Poland on May 1 , 2009 , breaking a world record for most guitarists playing a single song .
It is unclear who wrote this song .
Many people believe it was written by Chester Powers -LRB- aka Dino Valenti of Quicksilver Messenger Service -RRB- , but Hendrix himself - and also The Leaves - attribute it to William -LRB- Bobby -RRB- Roberts .
No one has been able to copyright it , so the song is considered `` traditional , '' meaning anyone can record it without paying royalties .
-LRB- thanks , Gary - Thetford , England -RRB- In an early demo version , Hendrix is caught off guard by the sound of his voice in the headphones , and can be heard on the recording saying , `` Oh , Goddamn ! ''
Then telling Chas Chandler in the booth , `` Hey , make the voice a little lower and the band a little louder . ''
Hendrix was always insecure about his vocal talents , but thought if Dylan could swing it , so could he .
Jimi played this for the first time at the 1967 Monterey Pop Festival .
It was the first time the group performed in America .
Dick Rowe of Decca Records turned down Hendrix for a record deal , unimpressed with both this and `` Stone Free . ''
Rowe also turned away the Beatles 4 years earlier .
A popular female trio , the Breakaways -LRB- Jean Hawker , Margot Newman , and Vicki Brown -RRB- were brought in by producer Chas Chandler for backup vocals .
This was the last song performed at Woodstock in 1969 .
The festival was scheduled to end at midnight on Sunday , August 17 -LRB- the third day -RRB- , but it ran long and Hendrix did n't go on until Monday around 9am .
There were n't many attendees left , but Hendrix delivered a legendary performance .
The liner notes for Are You Experienced ?
say this song is `` A blues arrangement of an old cowboy song that 's about 100 years old . ''
-LRB- thanks , tony - hackensack , NJ -RRB- There have been countless versions of this song , but the first is thought to have been performed by California-based folk singer , guitarist and harmonica player Billy Roberts in an Edinburgh folk club in around 1956 .
The BBC apologized after `` Hey Joe '' was played following a report on the Oscar Pistorius trial , following the disabled athlete 's shooting of his model girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp .
-LRB- The song includes the lines : `` Hey Joe , where you going with that gun in your hand ?
I 'm going out to shoot my old lady , you know I caught her messing around with another man . '' -RRB-
