`` Black Rose - A Rock Legend -LRB- Roisin Dubh -RRB- '' is the title track of the 1979 album by Thin Lizzy .
It is both an original song and a medley incorporating traditional Irish songs and allusions from the poet William Butler Yeats to the soccer player George Best , a drinking pal of bandleader and principal songwriter Phil Lynott .
The song was inspired by Lynott 's fascination with Irish history and Celtic mythology , and ironically was to become his epitaph .
Another irony is that like the founder of the Provisional IRA , the high poet of Irish rock was technically an Englishman .
In its March 10 , 1973 issue , New Musical Express reported that he was born in the Irish Republic , in fact Philip Parris Lynott was born in Hallam Hospital , West Bromwich near Birmingham on August 20 , 1949 , the illegitimate son of an Irish Catholic mother .
His middle name was taken from his father , Cecil Parris .
Lynott grew up in Dublin but also spent time in Manchester where his mother ran a hotel for musicians and show business types , the Clifton Grange , also known as The Showbiz or simply The Biz.Lynott appears to have built up a big mythology about his absentee father , but after the rising star and his band were featured in the long defunct popular weekly Titbits in January 1976 , Cecil Parris materialized .
Father and son met the following month , but the meeting did not go well , and shattered Lynott 's illusions.A third irony in Lynott 's life was to be the death of him ; he had been lined up to play Hendrix in a biopic ; Lynott bore a striking facial resemblance to the legendary guitarist .
Unfortunately that was not where the resemblance ended , and on January 4 , 1986 , he died in Salisbury Infirmary from septicemia and multiple organ failure , the result of his addiction to heroin .
He was 36 years old .
Phil Lynott was buried in Saint Fintan 's Cemetery , Sutton , Ireland , his grave engraved with the inscription : PHILIP PARRIS LYNOTT1949-1986 .
Go dtuga Diasuaimhneas da anam.Roisin Dubh.In 2005 , a statue was erected to Lynott in his hometown , Dublin .
There are a number of websites devoted to Thin Lizzy and Lynott , as well as several biographies of him and the band , including My Boy , by his mother .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander - London , England , for above 2 -RRB-
