`` Where You Lead '' was written by the long-standing pop solo artist Carole King with lyrics by collaborator Toni Stern , and included as the eighth track on her 1971 smash hit album Tapestry.While this song itself was not released as a single , the album Tapestry as a whole is a record-breaking charting album .
It was the # 1 album in the US for fifteen consecutive weeks , being the longest run any female solo artist has ever had at the top of the album charts , and has occupied a spot on the Billboard top-200 albums for a total of over 300 weeks .
The album is certified diamond by the RIAA - that means over ten million sold .
`` Where You Lead '' served as the theme song to the TV series Gilmore Girls , for which Carole King re-recorded it with her daughter , Louise Goffin sharing vocals .
King also appeared three times as a guest star on the series , as the proprietor of the music store in the fictional town of Stars Hallow .
While the town was fictional , the record store was not : there really was a Record Breakers store in suburban Connecticut , where the show was set .
While it is a love song rather than an inspirational song , the lyrics are inspired by the Biblical Book of Ruth .
The relevant King James quote is found in the Old Testament Ruth 1:16 : `` whither thou goest , I will go ... '' The situation there is that Naomi has two sons who marry two women , Ruth and Oprah .
The sons die and Naomi tells the daughters-in-law that she 's releasing them to go back to their mothers and remarry ; Ruth stays anyway and gives her famous loyalty speech while Oprah goes off to found her TV show ... ha !
No , not the same Oprah .
This all happens in the middle of a deadly famine .
Ruth reaps good karma for her loyalty by later marrying Boaz and having a son , and living a typical happily-ever-after ending .
Incidentally , she also finds herself in the direct lineage of King David .
In a case of a famous cover showing what the original could have done , Barbra Streisand recorded the song for her August 1971 album Barbra Joan Streisand .
It hit # 40 on the Hot 100 # 3 on the Adult Contemporary ; a later live version hit # 37 on the Hot 100 as well .
