Santa Cruz , California , singer-songwriter Chris Rene auditioned for the inaugural season of the American X-Factor series with this original composition .
His rendition earned him a standing ovation from the audience and three of the four judges .
Rene was mentored by Epic Records CEO L.A. Reid during the competition 's live shows and sang this song again during the final .
He finished third overall in the competition .
Rene recorded a new take of the song as his debut single .
Produced by JR Rotem , it was made available for fans to purchase on iTunes on March 13 , 2012 .
`` Chris Rene 's unique voice and identity constantly communicate his heartfelt message of love , positivity , and an overcoming of personal adversities , '' said Rotem .
`` You ca n't help but be inspired by his energy and touched by the genuine and natural quality of his voice . ''
The one-time drug and alcohol addict Rene told AOL Music that he wrote the song after turning a major page in his life .
`` At that point I had an apartment , I had a job and a car .
I was clean and I had my son and life was good , '' he revealed .
`` I wrote the song in case people were having a bad time , or in case I was having a bad time - this would hopefully lift me back up and bring positive light to the situation . ''
Chris 's grandfather , Leon René , was a famous composer of R&B and rock and roll songs between the 1930s and 1950s .
Among his best known tunes is `` Rockin Robin , '' a hit for Bobby Day and Michael Jackson , which he penned under his songwriting pseudonym of Jimmie Thomas .
The song 's music video was shot in Rene 's hometown of Santa Cruz , California by director Jeremy Rall -LRB- Jay-Z , Snoop Dog , Ludacris -RRB- .
The clip gives viewers a snapshot of the singer 's hometown , the places and people he grew up with and the inspiration for the song .
This just failed to break into the Billboard Hot 100 , peaking at # 101 .
However , in New Zealand it was a different story and the song rocketed to the top of the singles chart .
