This is the first single by Regina Spektor , taken from her sixth studio album , What We Saw from the Cheap Seats .
The song finds Spektor singing about someone who wants to liberate works of art from the museum where they are kept .
It was released for streaming on February 27 , 2012 , and for digital download the following day .
Spektor told NME the song was penned several years before the release of the album .
`` It has been around since 2004 or 2005 , '' she said .
The album cover features Spektor wearing peculiar black-and-red headgear .
`` I got that hat in Japan when I played there , '' she told Rolling Stone .
`` I tried this hat on and it had this fun conductor-hat vibe , and the drummer I was playing with was like , ` You have to get the hat .
you have to get it . '
I got it and brought it home and was like , ` Great , I 'm never going to wear this hat . ' ''
This song , along with the rest of What We Saw from the Cheap Seats , was recorded by Spektor with Mike Elizondo in Los Angeles during the summer of 2011 .
Whilst Elizondo is best known for his writing and production work alongside Dr. Dre , Eminem and other Hip-Hop artists , he and Spektor had previously worked together .
The pair collaborated on several tracks on Spektor 's 2009 album Far , including `` Eet '' and `` The Calculation . ''
Spektor told the New York edition of The Metro that the `` Cheap Seats '' title was in her head before she even knew what the album was going to sound like .
`` I 've been in all kind of seats , '' she said , `` and everything has its beauty , and that 's sort of the whole point of the world -- you always get something and you let go of something and each thing has its pluses and its minuses . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Adria Petty , who has collaborated with Spektor on almost all her visuals .
Petty , who is the daughter of Tom Petty , told American Songwriter magazine about their collaborations : `` I 'm really careful not to be too literal with her videos because the music has such a voice , '' she said .
`` It 's just a matter of being able to move through these spaces with her and go on a trip with her as the narrator , without having it proscribe how you hear the song or digest the lyrics .
Like a good book , it should be personal to whoever 's listening to it . ''
