Jason Aldean takes a comedic look back on his youth on this Thomas Rhett , Luke Laird and Barry Dean penned tune .
`` We 've got a song on here that 's called ' 1994 ' that is really unlike anything I 've ever cut before , '' he told the Associated Press .
`` The object is to have people rolling on the floor laughing when they hear this thing for the first time .
So it 's almost like taking a little trip , a ride back to 1994 and some things that went on back then . ''
Aldean 's only concern was that some of his younger fans would n't understand the references to Diffie and the '90s singer 's song titles .
`` There may be some younger fans that have to do some research and figure out who Joe Diffie is , '' he told Billboard , `` but obviously people in the business know he 's a great singer and one of the best vocalists we 've had in this town in years . ''
Aldean said : `` Country music in the mid - '90s was a big influence on my career , and I played all the songs that are referenced in '94 back in my club days .
Joe Diffie was rocking a sick mullet , and he was hotter than ever ... just putting out monster hit after monster hit .
It totally takes me back to those days , and it makes me smile every time I hear it . ''
Once the three songwriters had written the song it quickly found its way onto Night Train .
`` It was one of those crazy things where we wrote it and demoed it , it was cut two weeks later and then it was on Jason 's record , '' Rhett told The Boot .
`` Jason heard it when Luke was playing some songs for his producer , Michael Knox , at ASCAP , and he happened to stop by .
He started listening to the songs that were being pitched for him , and I was told that ' 1994 ' was the only one he asked to hear again .
The next day they told us he was cutting the song and it was going to be the third single off the record .
I 'm still soaking in the fact that Jason not only cut one of my songs but put it out as a single .
It 's been a really cool experience . ''
The song celebrates country hitmaker Joe Diffie , who was well known in the 1990s for his novelty songs and ballads .
Aldean producer Michael Knox told Billboard magazine that as soon as he and the singer heard the demo of the Thomas Rhett , Luke Laird and Barry Dean penned song , `` it was like , ` Dude , we have to cut this .
This is the funniest , coolest thing I 've ever heard . '
Jason said , ' I know . ' ''
`` I was a junior in high school in ' 94 , '' Aldean added , `` and Joe Diffie was huge .
I remember I went to the Cherry Blossom Street Party in Macon -LSB- Ga. -RSB- , with Kenny Chesney on one stage and Joe Diffie on the other stage , and there was 5,000 people watching Joe Diffie and about 500 watching Kenny Chesney . ''
So how does Diffie feel about the song ?
`` Jason 's found a really cool niche and he dang sure delivered on ' 1994 ' - big time , '' he told Billboard .
`` I mean , what else can you say but what an honor it is to have the larger part of a song reference songs of mine .
To think all of Jason 's fans will be chanting my name ... pretty dang cool . ''
Rhett , Laird and Dean originally penned a slow song about two lovers in a favorite romantic spot , listening to Joe Diffie , on their boom box .
It was Rhett 's idea to include the `` Joe , Joe , Joe Diffie '' phrase at the end of the chorus , as he felt like the song needed a little something extra and it gradually morphed into a more upbeat tune with other references to the 1990s singer .
The music video for the song was directed by Wes Edwards and features co-writer Thomas Rhett , Nashville actress Hayden Panettiere as well as Country artists Lady Antebellum , Luke Bryan , Florida Georgia Line , Little Big Town , and Jake Owen .
