James Durbin had a difficult childhood growing up in Santa Cruz , California , losing his father to a drug overdose at the age of 9 and shortly afterwards being diagnosed with Aspberger 's Syndrome and Tourette 's Syndrome .
However from an early age , he showed an interest in music and Durbin 's mom encouraged him to embrace his artistic inclinations .
As a teenager , he took part in various local theatrical musical productions and was the lead singer in a metal band called Hollywood Scars , where he went by the stage name of Jimmy Levox .
The single was released online on October 19 , 2011 and was also released to mainstream Top 40 radio stations .
A second single , `` Stand Up , '' was also sent to the more hard rock-oriented stations .
Durbin wrote the song with Marti Frederickson -LRB- Aerosmith , Def Leppard -RRB- about the unhappiness he feels whenever he has to go out on the road leaving behind his fiancée , Heidi and their son Hunter .
He explained : `` It 's a song about regret , and I find I 'm able to sing it because I look at that every time I go on business and have to leave Santa Cruz and my family . ''
Durbin 's breakthrough came when he reached the final of Season 10 of American Idol .
His pitch-perfect voice and hard rocker 's attitude made him one of the most popular contestants of the series .
After finishing fourth , he signed to Wind-Up Records -LRB- Evanescence , Seether -RRB- .
This is Durbin 's first single released from his debut solo album , Memories of a Beautiful Disaster .
The video was shot 90 minutes away from Las Vegas in a dry lake bed out in the desert of Barstow , California .
Durbin told Noisecreep that , `` it was a day full of rock 'n' roll debauchery . ''
He explained : '' I accidentally blew up a 1971 Dodge Charger by driving it too hard !
The hood was on fire and there was smoke everywhere .
I just remember the fire department guys we had on set running towards me screaming , ` Get the f -- out ! '
It was insane .
`` The rest of the video had to be filmed , `` with the car on a flatbed truck being pulled on a Uhaul .
We actually lit up a lot of things on fire during the shoot , '' the singer continued .
`` I even got some gasoline on myself at one point .
At the end of the video I drop a torch and destroy the whole set .
Just wait till you see this dude -- it is full-on heavy metal ! ''
