This is the opening song and title track of former Guns N ' Roses lead guitarist Slash 's second solo album .
The record features Slash 's touring band , which consists of vocalist Myles Kennedy -LRB- who also plays rhythm guitar -RRB- , drummer Brent Fitz and bassist Todd Kerns .
They are collectively billed on the album as `` Myles Kennedy and The Conspirators . ''
This was the first song that Slash handed onto Kennedy and the other band members in late 2010 , or early 2011 .
He told MusicRadar.com : `` I would make up stuff here and there and record it in GarageBand or Pro Tools in my laptop .
I would get the basic ideas I had -- be it two parts , three parts or a whole song -- then send it to Myles and he would come up with melodies . ''
Slash decided to name the album after this song , despite the fact it 's hard to say .
He explained why to Jam !
Music : `` I could n't think of a phrase or a word or even a sentence that really encompassed the whole album conceptually that really did that for me , '' he said .
`` So then it was like ` Slash II ? '
and I thought that 's just too generic so finally I said , ` Well , I 'll do the other method of titling your record which is using a track off the record . '
And ` Apocalyptic Love ' was actually the first song that we wrote together , sort of a tongue and cheek stab at love in the final moments of the our existence on the planet .
It had a good ring to it .
It was only until after I decided to make that decision I realized how hard it was to pronounce .
A lot of people have a hard time .
Apocalyptic sometimes just did n't fly out easily . ''
Slash worked with a variety of vocalists on his first studio album , including Kennedy on two tracks .
He told Toronto radio host Dave `` Bookie '' Bookman of 102.1 The Edge why he stuck he decided to stick with just one singer for his second set .
`` The last record was a great project. , '' he said .
`` I got to work with great people .
It was very liberating experience .
In that process , I met Myles Kennedy .
He floored me as a singer .
I thought he was fantastic and so we sort developed a relationship .
I asked him if he wanted to go do a tour and so he signed up and it was right from Alter Bridge .
So then I met Brent Fitz and he introduced me to Todd Kerns and at rehearsal for this tour , I realized this really magic moment of recognizing that this was a really well put together group and it was fantastic .
So we went out and started touring and I thought , ` If I was gon na do another solo record , I would just do it with these guys . '
So the whole record was written on the road .
We came out with all the songs , arranged everything , a really grueling pre-production period , and then we went in and recorded the whole album live in the studio . ''
Slash told Rolling Stone regarding the album : `` I completely left the lyrics to Myles .
As far away from lyric writing as I can get , the better .
He 's a good lyricist , so it 's not an issue . ''
Kennedy told Noisecreep how this song came about : '' ` Apocalyptic Love , ' that is pretty from the hip in the sense that one day Slash and I were talking - I think it was Slash and I - about the end of the world and the Mayan calendar and all that crazy stuff .
Everybody 's got that apocalypse fever right now .
I remember thinking , ` Well what if that was true ?
What if December 21 came about and it was the last day on earth , what would you do ?
What would do with your last few moments remaining on earth ?
That 's what that 's about . ''
