This song is about a Chicago groupie known as Cynthia Plaster Caster .
When they were assigned an art project to plaster cast `` something solid that could retain it 's shape , '' Cynthia and her friends Dianne and Marilyn came up with a clever way to get backstage and have a unique interaction with band members -LRB- or band 's members -RRB- : they would made molds of their penises in plaster of Paris .
Carrying around an official looking `` kit , '' their plan worked and they succeeded in making casts for many musicians and their associates , most notably Jimi Hendrix , who had an exceptionally large cast .
The Plaster Casters are discussed in detail in a chapter on groupies in Jerry Hopkins ' book The Rock Story , and some excellent reading is available at Cynthia 's Website .
-LRB- thanks , Ekristheh - Halath -RRB- Cynthia Plaster Caster is one of the greatest groupies of the golden era of groupies , which was the mid - '60s to the late '70s .
Competition was fierce for the attention of Rock Stars , and Cynthia had a gimmick that made her so renown , musicians would seek her out .
Beyond the gimmick , however , Cynthia was very astute : she worked in a team , doing most of her damage with her apprentice Dianne .
She had a penchant for British acts , so she learned their dirty language , which got their attention ; she knew that `` rig , '' `` chopper '' and `` Hampton wick '' were all cockney slang for penis , so she would often open an encounter by asking , `` how 's your rig , '' then introducing her services .
A master of marketing , she had business cards and T-shirts , branding her and Dianne `` The Plaster Casters of Chicago . ''
She was so successful that impostors came on the scene and started stealing her act , but boys in the band always wanted the real thing .
The members of Kiss were never molded by Cynthia , but the band is notorious for their backstage activities with groupies .
Gene Simmons is rumored to have a collection of Polaroids that would make Larry Flynt blush .
Frank Zappa considered Cynthia a brilliant conceptual artist , and brought her to California .
Zappa , who was introduced to the Casters by Eric Clapton , never got casted , but was always coming up with ideas for how they could present their art .
The casts have been exhibited from time to time , but Zappa did n't live long enough to pull off his idea for a `` Cock Rock '' exhibit featuring the casts .
