The 2010 album 11:59 was the first major release for the Long Island-raised singer/songwriter Ryan Star , but many of these songs appeared on his 2009 EP titled Last Train Home and found their way to various movies and TV shows .
This one appears on the soundtrack to the movie P.S. I Love You .
Ryan explained to us that this song was influenced by his girlfriend , Hallie , who he met when she was 15 and he was 20 .
He said : `` The world can come between two people -- I wrote a song in my old band called ` The World Has Come Between Us . '
And that song was about being with someone and then that thing where if you were living on Mars somewhere alone with this person , you know it would work , you know you 'd be perfect for each other .
But then you insert life , and you insert work , and jobs , and money , and family and these things , and all of the sudden the relationship does n't hold up , and it 's not strong enough .
And you think to yourself , Well , if it was only us , it would be perfect .
But that 's not how life is .
So I had this song ` The World Has Come Between Us ' back then , and ` Last Train Home ' was almost the opposite .
Instead of saying ` the world has come between us , ' it was , ' I will wait for you .
I will make this work .
We will make this work .
And we 'll grow together .
And we 're gon na live this life together and we 're gon na start now . '
So it starts with these kids , it 's almost like she 's going away to college and they 're gon na leave each other for a few years , and then they come back to each other .
And that 's why it says , ` No lines on her face represent each year that she 'd been away , ' but the fact is he waited and they got back together , and that was the strong part of that song I love so much . ''
In our interview with Ryan Star , he told us the story of this song : `` I 'm not a creepy guy or anything like that , but yesterday I was in the park , and I Twittered a picture of these two kids , they must have been tenth grade .
And they were lying on the grassy knoll , it was like out of a storybook .
And I 'm watching them and trying not to be such a perv , but I 'm rooting for the kid .
I 'm like , ` Go for second base , man , you can do it !
Go for it !
This is your time , this is it ! '
-LRB- laughs -RRB- And it was such an awesome thing to see.And ` Last Train Home ' is that .
` Last Train Home ' is the most autobiographical song on the record , but I try not to say that too much because I do n't want people to think I 'm a bad guy .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- But I fell in love with a girl a bit younger than me , and now as I get older the age difference is n't so hard .
But when you 're kids , a few years can be the trick .
And literally , I use that for inspiration .
The mother of this person in the song , she says to me , ` It was n't the dad that said stay away from my daughter , it was the mom . '
Now that we 're all cool , she felt slighted that I did n't give her credit .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- Her mom called my mom up and said , ` I 'm calling the cops on your son .
This is crazy ! '
But we were sneaking around and having young love and nothing could stop us , and it was pure and it was real , and I was a gentleman .
And that was the story behind ` Last Train Home . ' ''
