This is the lead single by American pop band Scissor Sisters , from their third studio album , Night Work .
The song was co-written and produced by Madonna and The Killers collaborator Stuart Price .
Guitarist Del Marquis discussed the song 's music video with Digital Spy : `` We wanted to make a video where we claimed the streets as our own because we 'd never really done that before .
You know , we 've never had as much fun shooting a video .
We rode around on the back of that truck for about six hours beginning at 11pm at night .
There were drunk people yelling at us , people looking sheepish because they were taking home one night stands and people puking on street corners .
It was a real good time , shooting that video ! ''
This was the first time Scissor Sisters had worked with another producer ; and the collaboration saw the group 's relationship with Price come full circle after they opened for his band Zoot Woman on their first UK tour in 2004 .
The hook-up with the Madonna producer came about after the group had ditched an entire album and co lead singer Jake Shears fled to Berlin to get his creative juices flowing again .
Female lead singer Ana Matronic told Spinner UK that Shears was able to re-ignite his creativity after a conversation with sometime Berlin resident and Pet Shop Boys singer Neil Tennant .
`` Neil said , ` Why do n't you just call Stuart and see what 's going on ? '
At that point , I think Jake was just looking for a really good friend and a good sounding board to bounce off ideas , '' Matronic explained.Not much later , Shears called up Matronic in New York , who told Spinner UK . ''
-LSB- Jake -RSB- was so excited and Stuart was so excited .
Stuart said to Jake , ' I would drop everything to make a record with you guys . '
So that next weekend , Stuart and Babydaddy were out in Berlin and then a week or two after that , I went to London to work in the studio with them .
It was all just this great creative explosion , all caused by Neil Tennant . ''
Shears told Q magazine that writing this song was a liberating experience .
He explained ; `` I was in the studio here in London having a creative crisis .
I was n't just blocked ; I thought it was over for us unless something drastic happened .
And that song is about overcoming that moment . ''
