This was released as the first single from Cage The Elephant 's third album , Melophobia .
Vocalist Matt Shultz told the story of the song to MusicRadar.com .
`` We were in the Buenos Aires airport , and I saw this amazing flamenco guitarist who was busking , '' he recalled .
`` He had this whole gypsy thing going on .
The music he played was very hypnotic and powerful -- you could hear the burdens of his heart .
I got inspired and grabbed my guitar .
I went to the next terminal -- there were n't that many people in this one yet -- and I started playing what in my head was Bulgarian folk . ''
`` I wrote the verse at the airport , inspired by the thought of things appearing different at first and then seeing them in a new light , '' Shultz continued .
`` We went on to San Paulo , and I remember being in my hotel and looking out one morning at this makeshift city on a hill .
There were tarps and scrap metal , all of these little boxes with people inside of them .
It made me think of an ant hill , but then I also thought , ` No , wait , these are people living their lives . '
It made me want to look closer .
That became the chorus . ''
`` Once I showed the parts to the band , '' Shultz concluded , `` we went to a rehearsal studio , pieced everything together , and there was the song .
But it all started in that airport in Buenos Aires .
Funny how that works sometimes . ''
Guitarist Lincoln Parish told Loudwire how the song came together : `` After we had written it , we liked it when we first wrote it .
But then we went and demoed it in my studio and we kind of felt like polka , '' he explained .
`` The verse had a different feel and beat to it .
Kind of a polka feel .
Then we listened to it back and were like , I do n't even think we ended up turning that version of the demo in to management , we were n't that happy with it .
We just let it sit and then we were back in the studio with Jay -LRB- Joyce , producer -RRB- , it was n't even a song that we were trying to cut .
Then he was like , well what other songs can we do ?
Towards the last little bit we were kind of , well what songs do we have left to cut ?
Or what songs do we want to cut and not cut .
We decided and Jay was like , we should do this one .
We 're like yeah , but the verse , we did n't like the feel .
He was like , figure it out .
So , we just sat around and actually just dumbed it down and made it a little more simple than it was originally .
The chorus is the same , but the verse changed as far as making it more straightforward and simple . ''
