Gray said of this track in publicity materials : `` It 's a song with quite dark sentiments .
I see it as a broad political thing , I think of the line from TS Eliot , ' a patient etherised upon a table ' , that 's the state we 're in as a collective mass .
We 're just sedated , talking s -- t. We 're so disconnected from the guts of life most of the time . ''
Gray told The Daily Mail August 14 2009 that getting the Scottish diva on board helped him escape from a musical formula he felt was becoming stale .
The Welsh singer had decided that he wanted to offer fans something more upbeat .
He explained : `` I went back to the drawing board .
I wanted to make some big changes .
Working with Annie was part of that process .
We did everything live , and it added some real magic .
The great thing about Annie is her lack of ego .
She did n't just turn up and sing .
She lifted the whole album .
Her energy was scintillating . ''
Gray on Annie Lennox 's vocal talents : `` She sings lines like , ` Bullied , suckered , pimped and patronized , ' and makes it sound like a good idea . ''
This is a duet with former Eurythmics singer Annie Lennox .
Initially Gray thought the song needed another male vocal like Chris Isaak .
However after demoing it he realised a female was needed .
The Welsh singer-songwriter explained in publicity materials : `` It would have sunk under it 's own worthy weight with another male singer singing with me .
When I was demoing it with my own voice it was like two bullocks braying in a field -- too testosterone . ''
The song was recorded in the Eurythmics ' old North London recording studio , The Church , which Gray now owns .
However when Lennox turned up at her old stomping ground to sing with him , she ended up reprimanding the singer .
He explained The Daily Mail : `` She was outraged that we had n't changed the tartan carpet she and Dave Stewart put down .
But she also told me the main studio brought back lots of memories .
I think things had become pretty strange for her at the height of her fame - but she was genuinely pleased to be singing in that old room again . ''
