Like a number of other songs on the album , this was recorded on its first take .
Jones explained to BBC DJ Steve Lamacq : `` Never heard it before in our lives and the take that 's on the album is the first time I 'd ever played it , likewise for Pete and Nick , and again it 's just having the confidence to do that and say , ` We 're not going to better this .
There 's no point in going back and like all right , now we know the chords and we know it ' and we could . ''
Bass player Simon Jones told the New Musical Express January 19 2008 : `` A song of Richard 's , but one where there 's just three chords going round and round so we can still jam through it as a band . ''
Frontman Richard Ashcroft told Steve Lamacq the story of this song : `` I remember some pretty chilling times at half past five , six , seven , eight o'clock in the morning on a rainy day having been up all night in Wigan , perhaps been down to the Wigan Pier discotheque on a Wednesday night and find yourself in some weird flat , looking in a mirror in a bathroom and those moments where you do n't recognize yourself whatsoever .
You look seventy years old and , yeah , that was an image that came back to me for a certain part of the song , but what I like about it the best , it really does breathe , this song , and it reaches a great crescendo .
Nick was banging on about the vocals at the end and saying , ` It 's the best vocal you 've ever done in your life . '
He was so into it , so I think it stayed on the album really because of probably Nick 's sort of excitement about it and his positive input into it so , erm ... I knew that , you know , Nick could do something pretty special on a song like Appalachian Springs because it was right up his street and , you know , he was very supportive of that song right from the start where I was , you know , maybe had lost that initial respect for the tune or love for the song .
He kind of helped take that to its rightful conclusion , and he created something pretty amazing on it . ''
