This is the first single from the Country music duo Montgomery Gentry 's seventh album Rebels On The Run .
The song was written by Nashville songwriters Rodney Clawson and Dallas Davidson and was released on July 25 , 2011 .
Eddie Montgomery went through a tumultuous 2010 , which included a battle with prostate cancer and divorce from wife Tracy .
The battles he fought are reflected in this song 's video , which was shot from the viewpoint of a deployed soldier .
`` I do n't know if we would have made the same album if we had n't been through everything we 've been through in the last year , '' noted Gentry .
`` We 've always tried to record songs about things we 've lived or seen , but the depth of all of those experiences really comes out in this album . ''
Eddie Montgomery told The Boot the duo jokingly refer to the song as '' ` My Town ' with an attitude . ''
He added : `` I love the song .
It does n't matter where you go in this world , you always take a little piece of your home with you . ''
Gentry explained the song 's meaning to Billboard magazine : `` It 's just a song that 's about our fans .
Regardless of where you end up in life , you always remember your hometown .
There are special things you remember in life , and your childhood days and high school years .
I think anyone who hears this song will be able to listen to and reflect on their earlier years in life , and the place they grew up , and appreciate the lyrics of the song . ''
Eddie Montgomery explained the thinking behind the video to The Boot : `` Potsie , the director , brought that idea to us .
He knew we were big fans of the military and always supported our -LSB- service -RSB- men and women .
He was able to bring that passion into this song and relay it into a soldier who was reminiscing about back where he came from during his time overseas .
He was thinking outside the box , something fresh and different . ''
Gentry told The Boot the song reminds him of the pair 's debut single `` Hillbilly Shoes '' `` in that the message was ` do n't judge me before you walk a mile in my hillbilly shoes . '
This says , ` Do n't you dare talk about my town until you 've been around the block with me .
Let me show you what 's going on here . ' ''
