Natasha Khan -LRB- aka Bat For Lashes -RRB- told Rolling Stone magazine that Two Suns was inspired by intensely personal experiences that followed her Mercury nominated debut set Fur and Gold .
She explained that she channeled her new lyrics through two main personas , one of which is Pearl , who according to the album 's press release is `` a destructive , self-absorbed , blonde , femme fatale of a persona who acts as a direct foil to Khan 's more mystical , desert-born spiritual self . ''
Said Khan : `` When I was recording and struggling with relationships and being away from home , I would sometimes go out to a bar and get drunk and then dress up as some of the characters on the album .
It was like an escapist fantasy - a way for me to help make sense of what I was feeling .
It sounds a bit mental but then again , I was feeling a bit mental at the time . ''
Yeasayer drummer Chris Keating and bass guitarist Ira Wolf Tuton assisted Khan on this track .
She told BBC 's Newsbeat about working with the electro wizards : `` It was a lot of dancing around the studio really going for it , and drum patterns and pressing buttons and samples . ''
This was released as the second single from Two Suns .
According to promotional materials , this song was inspired by Khan 's time spent living in Brooklyn on and off since 2007 . ''
Khan expressed her frustration to Q magazine June 2009 at Pearl being described as an alter ego in the tradition of David Bowie 's Ziggy Stardust or Beyonce 's Sasha Fierce .
She explained : `` That 's cheesy and not what I intended , she 's a character , part of my self-conscious . ''
Khan explained to Q magazine July 2009 that during her time in New York , she had become fascinated by the ritual of dressing up , having been fascinated by the shape-shifting drag queens in the documentary Paris Is Burning , a number of David Lynch and factory films , as well as reading The Philosophy of Andy Warhol , visiting Cindy Sherman exhibitions and looking at pioneering photographer Diane Arbus 's photographs of Mexican women , `` with their really thick black eyebrows and very painted white make-up and bright-red lips . ''
The grotesque theatricality of it all appealed , `` that kind of real garish version of feminity . ''
And so one night , Khan bought a blonde wig and set about changing herself into Pearl .
She said : `` It was all something I did quite spontaneously .
And my boyfriend and I just went out on the streets of Brooklyn , and he took pictures of me , and they helped me get into the character of these songs . ''
