This was Michael 's first solo album , and second single as a solo artist -LRB- after `` I Want Your Sex '' -RRB- .
He was previously a member of the Pop duo Wham !
, and was trying to change his image so he would appeal to a more adult audience and be taken seriously as an artist , something that was n't easy after hit singles like `` Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go '' and `` I 'm Your Man . ''
In the video , he appeared with stubble , a biker jacket , and strategically torn Levi 's .
In 1990 , Michael released the song `` Freedom ' 90 , '' where he denounced the image he created in the video for `` Faith . ''
In the video for `` Freedom ' 90 , '' he blows up the jukebox from the `` Faith '' video and sings , `` When you shake your ass , they notice fast , and some mistakes were built to last . ''
Also , the black leather jacket he wore in the `` Faith '' video -LRB- and several other videos based on songs from that album such as `` Father Figure '' -RRB- is set on fire .
-LRB- thanks , Ari - Elizabeth , NJ -RRB- This song has a very unusual intro : it starts with the sound of a church organ playing the tune from the 1984 Wham !
hit `` Freedom '' -LRB- not `` Freedom ' 90 '' -RRB- , recalling the era Michael is distancing himself from in this song .
The organ was actually a Yamaha DX7 synthesizer set to the pipe organ preset .
The Scottish session player Hugh Burns did the guitar solo and the rhythm parts , which were modeled on the Bo Diddley beat , which can also be heard on `` Not Fade Away '' by Buddy Holly and `` Desire '' by U2 .
For the solo , Burns played in the style of a '50s Sun Records recording , which engineer Chris Porter then drenched in reverb .
George Michael worked with Burns for hours to get the guitar sound synched to his vocals .
The song was recorded in two different studios .
The vocals and some of the tracks were done at Puk Studios in Denmark , which was chosen for its quality equipment and lack of distractions .
The track was finished -LRB- including the guitar solo -RRB- at Sarm West Studios in London , where Michael and Wham !
did most of their recording .
Limp Bizkit covered this on their first album in 1997 , and for a while it was their best-known song .
On their album , the song is track 9 .
After it ends , a `` special track '' called `` Stereotype Me '' is heard .
The special track ca n't be heard if you were to hit play on track 10 , the only way to hear it is to wait until the end of track 9 .
Limp Bizkit continued to use these special kind of tracks more on their later CD 's .
-LRB- thanks , Nick - Paramus , NJ -RRB- When the album was released , Michael explained why he chose this song as the title track , saying : `` It represents the way I feel at the moment .
It 's kind of another word for my hope and optimism .
You know , faith to me is just really such a strong word and the more I got into the idea of the song being the single , the more I liked the idea of using it as the title track . ''
Faith won the Grammy award for Album Of The Year .
It spent six non-consecutive weeks at # 1 in the US .
First topping the chart on January 16 , 1988 , it surrendered to Tiffany 's debut album for the next two weeks before moving back to the top spot for another five .
It was the biggest-selling album of 1988 in the US -LRB- 10 million-plus there , 20 million-plus worldwide -RRB- , and this title track was the biggest-selling single of the year .
This was one of the first digital recordings , which allowed Michael to put the song together piece by piece .
His vocal was done line-by-line , and sometimes word-by-word , as he would write lyrics at the microphone and record them on the spot .
It was a very tedious process , with Michael scrutinizing every syllable , but the end result was a very polished track with the emotional feel he was looking for .
This song plays a key role in the ABC TV series Eli Stone .
In the first episode , Eli hears this song in his head and has visions of George Michael .
This leads to a major lifestyle change , and focus on faith , as Eli begins using his job as a lawyer to do the right thing .
George Michael and his music would appear throughout the first season of the show .
At the 2003 BRIT Awards , Ms. Dynamite performed this with lyrics changed to show opposition to the war in Iraq .
Michael , himself a vocal campaigner against the war , did not appear at the ceremony but duetted on the song in a pre-recorded video .
-LRB- thanks , Donovan Berry - El Dorado , AR -RRB-
