This features Jay-Z who contributes a verse in a lyrical slugfest with Lil Wayne .
Both rappers actually go by the name of Mr. Carter .
Dwayne Michael Carter , Jr. is the name by which Lil Wayne 's mom knows him , while Jay-Z was christened Shawn Corey Carter .
DJ Infamous , who is a three-time world champion DJ , produced this together with Andrews `` Drew '' Correa .
Drew told Rhapsody about this song : `` I used to be his recording engineer for three years .
I did Tha Carter II and Like Father Like Son .
Infamous knew Wayne through passing beats to him .
We actually met through Wayne .
My friend Sha-ron Prescott helped me write the hook and sang the chorus .
I sped him up and purposefully made it sound like a sample .
We told -LSB- Wayne -RSB- it was a sample that we found .
I think Wayne still thinks it 's a sample .
Me and Infamous went to the studio and as soon as -LSB- Wayne -RSB- heard it , he absolutely lost his mind .
That 's the reason he shouted us out in the beginning because we were right there with him .
Jay literally got on the song -LSB- in mid May -RSB- .
` Mr. Carter ' was the last song -LSB- on Tha Carter III -RSB- to get mixed and mastered .
`` Infamous added : `` I was talking to everyone I knew who knew Jay-Z to find out what was going on .
Finally , he did it last minute and the song was wrapped . ''
The Guardian newspaper August 13 2008 asked Jay-Z whether his line `` I took so much change from this rap game It 's your go , '' was passing the baton on to Lil ' Wayne as the next big MC ?
He replied : `` I mean that to all upcoming artists .
It just happened to be Wayne for that song , but it 's for everybody .
You know that 's what Russell -LSB- Simmons -RSB- and those guys did for us .
They paved the way so that we can get to our goals quicker , if it took Russell ten years then it took me and Puff five years .
So hopefully it will take them two and a half .
That was really a blanket statement for any upcoming artist .
For Lupe , for TI , for everybody . ''
In Lil Wayne 's opening verse he describes how nature 's seasons hate him because they both have similar attributes .
-LRB- `` Winter hatin ' on me cuz I 'm colder than ya 'll '' -RRB- .
Rolling Stone magazine asked Lil Wayne how he reacted when Jay Z rapped the line `` my heir , Young Carter , '' on this track : `` That line right there was hard !
Unbelievable .
I did n't even realize it at first .
My homie had to tell me ` You know what he said , right ? '
I did n't even get it .
I was like , ` Why is he saying ` air ' ?
Is he just talking about the air ? '
But I 'm smart enough to know that he 's smart enough not to just be talking about the air .
I felt real dumb , but then I felt so good .
It was an incredible compliment . ''
Lil Wayne told HipHop.com that this song is his personal favorite from Tha Carter III , `` because it was with Jay-Z . ''
He added : `` That night there was an amazing moment .
Everything else is amazing as well , but that right there ?
I go to that song first when I put the album on .
The song was given to me , I did the song and he and I , we know the same people .
Someone played him that song and he said ' I got to have it . '
He called me and I said ` No problem . ' ''
