As with all the songs on the album , Roger Waters wrote this .
Some of the lyrics are based on an IRA terrorist attack that took place in London in July 1982 .
Two bombings occurred that day , one in Hyde Park , one in Regents Park .
In Hyde Park , as the Household Cavalry marched past a parked sedan , a bomb hidden inside exploded .
Four Cavalrymen and seven horses died , 22 guards and civilians were injured .
Less than two hours later , on a bandstand in Regents park , the band of the Royal Green Jackets was giving a concert when a bomb underneath the stage exploded -LRB- `` And maniacs do n't blow holes in bandsmen by remote control '' -RRB- .
Six bandsmen died , 24 other bandsmen and four civilians were injured .
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Mountlake Terrace , Washington -RRB- The line , `` in the corner of some foreign field the gunner sleeps tonight - We can not write off his final scene - take heed to the dream '' means the gunner died in the field but do n't let him die in vain and make peace in the world .
-LRB- thanks , Josh - Sarnia , Canada , for above 2 -RRB- Roger Waters came up with the character in this song based on his perception of war veterans , who he noticed were always very quiet about their experiences .
`` You 're never the same , '' he said in a 2003 interview with Uncut .
`` Those of us who have n't been exposed to it can never properly understand it .
You get desensitized to it by all the violence on TV .
You never sense the actual trauma involved . ''
The song tells the story of a gunner in a bomber -LRB- not on the ground -RRB- who has parachuted out of his plane and as he floats down to the ground , memories of his life come up to meet him but then he has dream .
His dream is that the world will be at peace where there is no censorship so you can speak out loud about what you are thinking , there will be no military rations so everyone can eat , and men wont have to sleep in the trenches .
Most importantly , the youth of the nation wo n't be sent of to die for their country -LRB- `` No one kills the children anymore '' -RRB- .
It also refers to people disappearing in the night .
This would happen to Jews and any others the Germans did not want in WWII .
It also refers to the IRA terrorist attacks , which shows that the Gunner 's Dream has not been fulfilled .
The song 's title may have been meant as a play on the nickname of London 's Arsenal Football Club .
Roger Waters is a well-known follower of the Gunners , who are now competing in England 's Premier League .
-LRB- thanks , Joshua - Twin Cities , MN -RRB-
