This is the first official single from American rapper Rick Ross 's fourth studio album , Teflon Don .
The song is helmed by hip hop producing legend DJ Clark Kent together with production team the Remedy and features Ross ' Def Jam label mate Ne-Yo .
F. Gary Gray directed the video , the first clip he 's helmed since Jay-Z 's `` Show Me What You Got '' in 2006 .
Ross told MTV News : `` When I started brainstorming about visual ideas , I started flipping through some of my favorite movies , such as ` Friday , ' such as Set It Off , such as The Italian Job , The Negotiator .
Most recently , Law Abiding Citizen .
What all these films had in common was they was all directed by F. Gary Gray .
That 's when I decided : ` This is my favorite director of all time . '
Shout out to F. Gary Gray .
I reached out to my homie , he just came aboard to direct ` Super High . ' ''
Ne-Yo told MTV News that it was their working relationship that convinced Ross to hook up with him for this song .
`` It was a chemistry thing , so when he put this one together , he said I was one of the first people he called about it , '' Ne-Yo explained .
`` Ross is just a cool dude .
I respect his lyrical ability .
There 's only a few in the game that really say something when they say something , and Ross is one of those few .
So it 's just an honor to be on the joint . ''
Ross told MTV News that that he was inspired to write the song while looking down at Central Park from Diddy 's penthouse in Manhattan .
`` The concept actually came from me and Diddy - we was running around New York City one night , went back to his penthouse and that 's where the actual term ` super high ' comes from , '' he explained .
`` It 's 5 o'clock in the morning .
I 'm just burning , I 'm thinking .
-LSB- Diddy -RSB- turned on Purple Rain , Prince .
A few homies were in there - D Roc , me and him reminiscing , talking about Biggie .
After the conversation I just stopped watching the movie and walked to the huge window .
And I was reflecting like , ` Wow . '
It had me reflecting on how far I came as a artist and as a person.When you trying to get better as an artist , a lot of times we coming from the streets .
We 're flawed in a lot of ways .
We trying to get better as people .
I was reflecting on that , realizing how significant the title Teflon Don is , even though that was one of my first rap names and one of the first tattoos I got .
I just came with the whole first verse looking out the view : ` From my n -- a Diddy view , I think I see his vision too / Purple Rain over Central Park , chillin ' with my goons . '
I was just capturing them moments and putting it over beats . ''
During a conference call with Def Jam , Clark Kent saluted Ross .
`` I wanted to congratulate Rick Ross , '' Kent said .
`` I said , ` Please listen to this song .
It 's not for anybody else .
It 's for you . '
I said , ` This is for you .
Do n't put none of your friends , no other artists on it .
This is made for you . '
I wan na say thank you for f -- in ' with it .
What you did to the song , I wan na say thank you . ''
This is the second collaboration between Ross and Ne-Yo following Deeper Than Rap 's `` Bossy Lady . ''
Despite the song title , Ne-Yo told MTV News the song has nothing to do with drugs .
He explained : `` It 's just about feeling good .
Doing things that maybe regular people ca n't do .
You work hard so you get to play hard . ''
The music video features Ross as a motorcycling bad boy who proves irresistible to a beautiful girl played by Clueless actress Stacey Dash .
Ross told MTV News that Diddy introduced him to the director of the clip , F. Gary Gray , `` one night . ''
He added : `` When I completed the record , I flew out to L.A. and met with him .
I played -LSB- the track -RSB- for him .
I got ta shout him out big time .
But the video is actually like flashback of -LSB- the movie -RSB- Easy Rider - a bunch of homies hoggin ' the highway .
We run across a beautiful young lady which happens to be Stacie Dash , and a dude - he 's a d ----- bag .
I end up snatching her and spending the rest of the evening with her , the way a boss should . ''
