`` Bare Trees '' was the title track from Fleetwood Mac 's 1972 album .
Though the song was never released as a single , the album peaked at # 70 on the US Billboard 200 Album chart .
The song was re-released in 1993 as part of the Time Life music compilation , Sounds of the 70s : FM Rock , Vol .
4 .
Fleetwood Mac recorded their 1972 album , Bare Trees at the De Lane Lea Music Centre in Wembley , England .
The studio , which started out in life some ten miles away in Holborn , England , was acquired in the mid - '60s by Major Jaques De Lane Lea , a French intelligence attaché to the British government , who used the studio to dub English films into French .
Known for its sound and range of recording equipment , the studio became a popular haunt of British rock acts including The Animals , Deep Purple , and The Rolling Stones .
In October 1966 , The Jimi Hendrix Experience recorded their first two songs at the Holborn studio , `` Hey Joe '' and `` Stone Free . ''
In 1969 , work began on a new studio in Wembley , England to replace the old .
The De Lane Lea Music Centre opened its doors in 1971 , after extensive sound testing by then-unsigned glam rock group , Queen .
In a June 8 , 1972 review in Rolling Stone magazine of the album , Bare Trees , reviewer Bud Scoppa wrote , `` The first song , ` Bare Trees , ' its title suggested by a line from old Mrs. Scarrot 's poem , moves along exhilaratingly , even though its lyric is a metaphor of age and approaching death ; perhaps it 's the acceptance of the cycle that gives the music a hopeful , almost happy feeling . ''
Written and recorded in 1972 , `` Bare Trees '' was a songwriting contribution of guitarist , Danny Kirwan , who was only 22 at the time .
Kirwan , after being discovered in a Brixton , England pub by Fleetwood Mac members Peter Green and Mick Fleetwood , joined the band in 1968 .
Peter Green commented about the then 18 year old guitarist , Kirwan was `` full of ideas that helped move Fleetwood Mac out of the blues and into rock music mainstream . ''
Kirwan made significant writing contributions on the band 's albums Future Games and Bare Trees , but due to escalating conflicts with band mates , Kirwan was fired from the band during their tour in support of Bare Trees .
The song was inspired by a poem written by an older woman who lived near the band 's home in Southern England .
Known as `` Mrs. Scarrot , '' her poem was called Thoughts on a Grey Day , which is also the name of a track on the album that consists of her reading it from her home .
The line that inspired `` Bare Trees '' is `` God bless our prefect , perfect grey day with trees so bare -- so bare . ''
The poem provided inspiration for much of Danny Kirwan 's songwriting work on the album .
