In 1977 , The Bee Gees manager Robert Stigwood was producing a movie about the New York Disco scene .
The working title of the film was `` Saturday Night , '' so he asked the group to write a song of that name .
The Bee Gees thought it was a dumb title , but they had already written a song called `` Night Fever . ''
They convinced Stigwood to use that and change the film 's title to Saturday Night Fever .
The movie became a classic , telling a coming-of-age story in the Disco era .
It helped launch the film career of John Travolta , who starred as Tony Manero , the conflicted youth who escaped his troubles on the dance floor .
The string intro is inspired by `` Theme From A Summer Place '' by Percy Faith .
The Bee Gees keyboard player was performing it one morning at the studio and Barry Gibb walked in and heard the new idea for this song .
-LRB- thanks , James - Beverly Hills , CA -RRB- In America , with eight weeks on top of the chart , it spent more weeks at # 1 than any other song in 1978 .
For five of those weeks -LRB- March 18 - April 15 -RRB- , another Bee Gees song from Saturday Night Fever , `` Stayin ' Alive , '' was # 2 .
The soundtrack for Saturday Night Fever sold over 30 million copies worldwide and it won the 1978 Grammy for Album Of The Year .
This was the third single from the soundtrack and became that album 's biggest hit single , remaining on the top of the American Pop charts for 8 weeks in early 1978 .
It also topped the British charts for two weeks and won a 1978 Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Performance By A Group .
Robin Gibb in Observer Music Monthly January 2008 : `` The idea for the film that became Saturday Night Fever started when our manager , Robert Stigwood , saw an article in New York magazine entitled ` Tribal Rites of the New Saturday Night ' by Nik Cohn , talking about teenagers going to dancing competitions .
When they first started dance rehearsals for the film with John Travolta , they were using our song ` You Should Be Dancing , ' which had been released the previous year .
We were mixing a live album in France and Robert rang and asked if we had any other songs we could contribute .
In the end we had five new tracks - ` Staying Alive , ' ` How Deep is Your Love ?
, ' ` Night Fever , ' ` More Than a Woman ' and ` If I Ca n't Have You ' -LRB- recorded by Yvonne Elliman -RRB- - plus the previously released ` Jive Talkin '' and ` You Should Be Dancing . '
It was also our idea to call it Saturday Night Fever , because the competitions were on Saturday and we already had the track ` Night Fever .
` Until the film came out , ` Disco ' meant something very different in the UK to the US .
We were writing what we considered to be blue-eyed soul .
We never set out to make ourselves the kings of Disco , although plenty of other people tried to jump on the bandwagon after the success of the film .
When we went to the premiere at the Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles it was obvious the film and the songs really gelled , but none of us had any idea how huge it would become .
It remains the biggest-selling soundtrack ever , and very few artists have created something with the cultural impact that Saturday Night Fever had . ''
