This was written by Graham Gouldman , who was the bass player for the group 10cc .
He also wrote `` Heart Full Of Soul '' for the Yardbirds .
Gouldman was inspired by the Animals `` The House Of The Rising Sun . ''
Bassist Paul Samwell-Smith made wholesale changes to Gouldman 's original demo , including the use of a harpsichord .
Gouldman observed to Uncut magazine August 2009 : `` The harpsichord was an absolute stroke of genius .
The record just had a weird , mysterious atmosphere about it . ''
The Yardbirds did n't have a lot of hits , but were one of the most influential and original bands of the ' 60 , and an easy pick for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame , which they entered in 1992 .
Having a hit song was important to them , however , and this song provided that .
McCarty explains : `` To try and get a hit song in those days was quite a difficult thing to do for us .
We could come up with ideas , but our first hit song was very important for us .
And with ` For Your Love ' we heard it and had the demo of it and it sounded like a hit song to all of us .
Yeah , there was n't a problem doing that .
It was the sort of thing that you relied on to get into that other echelon , to have a hit song .
All our contemporaries were having hit songs : The Beatles and the Stones and the Moody Blues and Animals , they were all having Number 1 hits and we were really trying to keep up . ''
This song prompted Eric Clapton to leave The Yardbirds , since he felt their music was becoming too commercial .
He was replaced by Jeff Beck , who was later replaced by Jimmy Page .
Clapton joined John Mayall 's Bluesbreakers and would later be a member of Cream and Derek and the Dominos .
One of the contributing factors to Eric Clapton 's departure was , while performing the song live , his having to recreate the song 's harpsichord on a 12-string guitar .
-LRB- thanks , James - Tracy , CA -RRB- The Yardbirds were known as a great live band , but the recording technology of 1965 limited their commercial potential , as the songs they wrote themselves did n't play well in a studio setting .
McCarty told us how this song gave them a breakthrough : `` All the stuff that we played live and we recorded in the studio , it just sounded really tame .
The studios were n't so good then , they were n't really geared for playing rock and roll or blues music .
And all the ideas that we 'd had up to ` For Your Love ' just sounded awful .
And so ` For Your Love ' was the song that would sound good anyway , because it was a much more commercial song . ''
This song appeared in the movies Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , Harimu Ogen -LRB- 1985 -RRB- and Deadly Advice -LRB- 1994 -RRB- .
This was used in commercials for Zales jewelry .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The Yardbirds wrote many of their own songs as a group , but had some of their biggest hits with the ones Gouldman wrote .
What did they think of Gouldman 's songs ?
Yardbirds drummer Jim McCarty told us : `` Well , they were always very original .
Very interesting songs , very moody , because they were usually in a minor key , the ones we did , anyway .
` For Your Love ' was an interesting song , it had an interesting chord sequence , very moody , very powerful .
And the fact that it stopped in the middle and went into a different time signature , we liked that , that was interesting .
Quite different , really , from all the bluesy stuff that we 'd been playing up till then .
But somehow we liked it .
It was original and different . ''
This almost did n't get recorded by The Yardbirds .
Gouldman wrote it for his own group at the time , the Mockingbirds , but their demo was turned down by Columbia .
Also it is believed that producer Mickie Most turned it down on behalf of Herman 's Hermits and that the Animals also turned it down.The song found it 's way to The Yardbirds after their manager ran into the fledgling songwriter Gouldman when they were opening for The Beatles at a 1964 Christmas show .
Gouldman loved how The Yardbirds would change tempo in the middle of a song , which is how he wrote `` For Your Love . ''
The harpsichord on this song was played by session musician Brian Auger , who later became a solo artist of note .
His biggest hit was the Bob Dylan song `` This Wheel 's On Fire , '' which was credited to Julie Driscoll With Brian Auger And The Trinity .
It later became the theme tune for the BBC comedy show Absolutely Fabulous .
On The Yardbirds official site , bass player Chris Dreja says of this : `` We owe a lot to that song because it sort of pulled us out from national to international and set the template for us - that time change in the middle , the weirdness of it . ''
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Fleetwood Mac recorded this for their 1973 album Mystery to Me and released it as a single .
