Lead vocalist Brent Smith sings on this song about an endless devotion to his girlfriend Teresa Collier over strings and piano .
Drummer Barry Kerch commented to Alternative Addiction : `` Really it 's a love song pure and simple .
I 'll do whatever it takes ; I 'll follow you anywhere and everywhere . ''
Bass explained the song 's meaning to City Beat : `` Lyrically , it is about the person in your life who is your best friend , your spouse or your girlfriend , your boyfriend or someone really close to you , that person you will always be there for and they will always be there for you . ''
Bass player Eric Bass co-wrote this tune .
He told City Beat magazine the story of the song : `` The piano part I had for a couple years .
I had been playing it in sound checks .
We do n't write on the road , but if it 's something someone in the band hears , ` Hey remember that .
Record that . '
We are pretty in tune with that sort of stuff . ''
`` We were out on our acoustic tour that we did on the end of our last record cycle with Will Hoge , a great singer-songwriter from Nashville .
Nobody had really said anything about the piano thing I had , so I thought maybe it will be good for Will . ''
`` So I hit him up and said , ` On the next day off , I want to show you this piano piece I have got and we can write a song . '
He gave me his number and said to give him a call .
I gave him a call the day of , I called him like three times , never went to voicemail , never picked up . ''
`` The next day , I was like , ' I called you three times . '
He said , ` It never came through .
I do n't know what happened . '
That day at soundcheck , Brent was like , ` What 's that thing you are playing ? '
I was like , ` Man , I have been playing it for three years . '
He finally woke up to it .
We actually had the recording that day at sound check kind of going through the song .
Some of the lyrics are actually in there from that first time we ever played it through , he and I. '' `` If you fast forward six months when we finally wrote it , finally sat down and wrote the song , it happened seamlessly .
We wrote it in like two hours , the whole thing was done . ''
