This is the first single from American Heavy Metal band Korn 's ninth studio album , Korn III -- Remember Who You Are and their 34th single overall .
The song was debuted live on March 27 , 2010 in Anchorage , Alaska .
This is the first single with the band 's new percussionist Ray Luzier , who became Korn 's touring drummer in late 2007 and was made an official member in 2009 .
The song 's music video portrays a young boy living in Oildale : `` We thought it was fitting to have the first single and video from Korn III -- Remember Who You Are be ` Oildale -LRB- Leave Me Alone -RRB- ' , since Oildale is near where we grew up as kids , '' said Davis .
`` It 's a poverty-stricken area surrounded by endless , rich oil fields .
The money does n't really help the local people and it 's tough for local kids to get out of there .
I feel blessed that our music busted us out . ''
The song 's title references Oildale , a suburb of Korn 's hometown of Bakersfield , California .
Even though the lyrics do n't mention the town , they appear to be referring to frontman Jonathan Davis 's troubled past .
Davis said in press materials that the album title sums up the content of the record .
He explained : `` It comes down to one question : ` Who the f -- k am I ? '
It 's about remembering where we came from .
The title sums up everything I 'm talking about lyrically .
During the first two records , we were kids , and we did n't have anything .
We were making music , having fun and not worrying .
I went back to that place where I was n't worried .
I wanted to be completely honest with my feelings , express myself and let them out .
People get so wrapped up in social communities , the Internet and technology that they forget who they are and what life 's really about .
I f -- forgot who I was until I did this record .
This album is just a bass , a guitar , drums and my vocals .
I look at the records we 've done as slots in time , and I believe Remember Who You Are is very special . ''
Korn III -- Remember Who You Are was helmed by Ross Robinson , who also produced Korn 's first two albums .
Davis told Billboard magazine that the producer dug deep into his angst-filled lyrics , forcing him to re-visit his painful past .
`` I 'd come in with some lyrics , '' Davis recalled , `` and we 'd go through them line by line and talk about everything that was behind them , and -LSB- Robinson -RSB- would really want to get inside them .
And once I 'd get in there and start to sing he would use those things against me , like pouring salt on the wound .
He got into my head and took me to a very bad place .
I relapsed into f -- king depression , hard .
I got suicidal .
I even had my psychiatrist pissed off , wanting to call him and say , ` What are you doing to this poor kid ? '
It was getting bad when the doctor started to get involved .
`` Davis continued that he did n't talk to Robinson `` for a long time '' after the album was recorded .
`` But I called him up and said ` thank you , ' because he did what he had to do to get this record right .
I knew it was necessary , but it was hell . ''
