Dutch DJ Vato Gonzalez 's first single to enter the UK singles chart features vocals from English Hip Hop , Grime and Dubstep group Foreign Beggars .
The Ministry of Sound release was made available to download in the UK on June 19 , 2011 .
London based Foreign Beggars consists of MCs Orifice Vulgatron , Metropolis , producer Dag Nabbit and DJ Nonames .
Orifice Vulgatron and Dag Nabbit met in Dubai and after making drum and bass for a time they switched to hip hop .
DJ Nonames met Metropolis at university in 2000 and the duo joined hip hop and funk band Focused Few and began throwing warehouse parties and touring .
Vulgatron was introduced to Nonames through Dj Gizroc , then part of the Mixologists Crew , and by late 2002 the quartet had started performing and recording alongside beatboxer Shlomo .
The band released their first album , Aylum Speakers on November 27 , 2003 .
Shlomo subsequently moved on and started doing his own thing with the Beatbox Orchestra and by 2011 Dagnabbit had taken a backseat and was concentrating on the crew 's business side .
A music video to accompany the release of the song was shot in Barcelona and first uploaded onto YouTube on May 18 , 2011 .
Metropolis told Ministry of Sound about the light-hearted rooftop romp : `` The director sent us the idea for the video , I think its mainly because of the Godzilla sample .
Think the video was based on a Jack Black film where these 2 guys where in a video store and do remakes of old Japanese B-Movies for their girlfriends .
Once again we were so busy on tour it was hard to find the right spot and time to shoot .
We had a couple dates in Spain , the crew came out to Barcelona with our costumes and we spent the whole day in the sweltering heat on a rooftop in costume .
It was wicked fun .
Everyone there was real cool and we got to meet Mr Gonzalez himself . ''
The song samples the theme for the 1954 Japanese movie Godzilla .
Rapper Pharoahe Monch borrowed the same music for his 1999 hit `` Simon Says , '' but did n't get clearance for it , which created a major headache for his record company .
We hope Gonzalez has been more careful .
Metropolis told Ministry of Sound how the collaboration with Vato Gonzalez came about : `` We had been on Ministry of Sounds radar for a few months and in discussions about working on a track .
They sent us the instrumental to demo something on it , but we barely had any time .
When we finally got a date free we managed to record real quick , I was in London , Vulgatron was in Berlin at the time .
Thankfully they really liked the way we sounded on it , and booked us in again to get it done properly . ''
