This track is based around a Screaming Jay Hawkins sample of `` I Put A Spell On You , '' which was also used on Biggie Smalls ' `` Kick In The Door . ''
Estelle told ilikemusic.com how producer Will.I.Am came up with the idea for this song : `` The vibe of the song is just hype .
We were in with Will.I.Am and I said , ` I 'm not leaving here without a hit .
I 'm not leaving here without some heat at the very least .
Just hell no . '
And he was being his eccentric self .
He started playing samples and vibing .
And I said , ' I wan na go to some old school hip hop s -- t but I want to sing and make it real pretty . '
And I had this idea that I was gon na do this song , ` Betty Bag had a bad attitude . '
I was gon na use that .
And he started vibing more and he said , ` what do you think about this ? '
And he pulled out ` bamp , bamp , bamp , bamp ' -LSB- Estelle sings a famous hip hop sample -RSB- , the original .
You 've heard it on the Biggie tunes and whatnot , but I had n't heard the original forever .
So we were all walking round the room doing free steps in the room .
It was all of that .
From that energy he pulled it up and he just started making the beat right there and then , he starting vibing , bringing in the keys , bling , bling , bling . ''
Estelle told ilikemusic.com that this track was the one she had the most fun laying down in the studio : `` Just A Touch was the most fun .
Because I say ' I ai n't carrying your embryo ' and it took me half an hour to put that line down , because embryo is such a funny word .
When you start doing lyrics and stuff , you start listening to the way things sound and 'em bryo ' to me is hilarious .
Embryo is funny , pantyhose is funny .
There are some words and you break up the words and say them , it sounds stupid do n't it ?
Same as the word ` balls ' it just sounds funny .
So we had lots of time laughing until I was like , ` everybody get out of the room , I 've got to do this properly . '
It was hilarious . ''
In an interview with the Daily Mail Estelle added that executive producer John Legend suggested that she wrote for this song about a girl giving a guy `` just a little piece '' of her love .
John Legend is featured in the music video .
This was originally released as a single in 2007 but it failed to chart .
