The character Big Brother was invented by the author , journalist and critic George Orwell -LRB- 1903-50 -RRB- .
Orwell was his pen name ; he was born Eric Arthur Blair , the son of a civil servant in Bengal , India , which was then under British administration .
When he was young , Orwell became a Communist but his experiences in Spain during the 30s instilled in him a bitter hatred of the ideology , and he penned two brilliant novels attacking Communism , Stalinism in particular .
The first of these novels , Animal Farm , was a satire on the Russian Revolution ; the second , 1984 , was a projection into a future dystopia which was ruled by a tyrannical all-pervasive government that controlled every aspect of its citizens ' lives .
Love - except love for Big Brother - and indeed the sexual act were outlawed , certainly for party members and aparatchiks , and anyone could be denounced for any reason .
Arbitrary arrest , torture and execution were very real threats for anyone and everyone .1984 saw the introduction of the concept of thought crime , something that has become very real today .
At the top of the pyramid was Big Brother , a cult figure who may not have actually existed .
Over the half century and more since Orwell 's death , the term Big Brother has come to mean an all-pervasive , all-seeing state which seeks to control the affairs of every citizen and enforces even the slightest deviance with Draconian penalties .
In the book , people were monitored by CCTV even in their own homes ; the state could hear literally every word they spoke .
In the modern world , the term Big Brother has become synonymous with this type of surveillance .
Bowie 's song , which runs to 3 minutes 21 seconds , was written in 1973 and intended for a musical adaptation of the novel , but Orwell 's estate refused permission .
The song mirrors the supposedly paternalistic face of Big Brother , and ends with the refrain `` We want you Big Brother , '' a sad but accurate comment on those of a politically correct disposition .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for above 2 -RRB-
