Lead singer Corey Taylor -LRB- from Kerrang !
July 19 , 2008 -RRB- : `` This is the slow one .
It 's another personal one .
Again , not naming names , it 's about someone who helped me through a lot and I thought she felt the same way that I did and then she really let me down .
At the same time , it was good that she did , because it was that final push to me figuring out myself .
The lyrics are pretty self-explanatory . ''
In the short-film video , the white-haired desk clerk with the dapper bow-tie behind that sheet of glass is none other than actor Malcolm McDowell - best known as the lead droog in Stanley Kubrick 's A Clockwork Orange .
O my brothers , this has been a most exquisitely horrorshow moment of fannish squee .
The word `` snuff '' originally meant a tin of crushed tobacco leaves , meant to be nasally inhaled , which practice swept the world -LRB- especially Europe and Asia -RRB- by the 17th century .
As the general rabble smoked tobacco , snuff became the upper-crust way to enjoy nicotine .
This song is about how the protagonist 's soul is too dark to let love in , telling somebody to get away from them .
It 's dark and brooding , representing the pits of depression or at least the bottom of the cycle in a manic-depressive .
Slipknot being a particularly dark Nu-Metal band , it 's pretty typical .
Despite Slipknot having a somewhat stumbling chart record - doing far better on the UK singles ' charts than in their home country - their albums continued to sell gold and platinum worldwide .
`` Snuff '' comes from their 2008 album All Hope Is Gone , which ranked a couple of fewer platinums than their previous albums but sold gold and platinum in more countries worldwide than ever before , also hitting # 1 on album charts in 5 countries .
This indicates that maybe Slipknot is headed for `` cult '' status , dodging mainstream success but being in for a very loyal niche popularity .
Even in their home town of Des Moines , Iowa , they seldom make news.It also says something that one of those # 1 album sales happened in Sweden , home to some of the most distinguished metal bands in history and arguably one of the birthplaces of death metal .
They take their metal very , very seriously in Scandinavia .
