John Lee Hooker first recorded in 1948 , and the next year released his classic `` Boogie Chillen , '' which eventually sold over a million copies .
In the '50s , he recorded under several different names -LRB- `` Delta John '' and `` Birmingham Sam '' among them -RRB- and refined his craft with constant live performances .
By 1962 , he was signed to Vee-Jay Records , who teamed him up with seasoned session players and tried to bring his music to a wider audience .
`` Boom Boom '' was the song that crossed over , marking his only entry on the US Hot 100 and becoming his signature song .
Hooker told Bruce Pollock how the song originated : `` I used to play at this place called the Apex Bar in Detroit .
There was a young lady there named Luilla .
She was a bartender there .
I would come in there at night and I 'd never be on time .
Every night the band would beat me there .
Sometimes they 'd be on the bandstand playing by the time I got there .
I 'd always be late and whenever I 'd come in she 'd point at me and say , ` Boom Boom , you 're late again . '
And she kept saying that .
It dawned on me that that was a good name for a song .
Then one night she said , ` Boom boom , I 'm gon na shoot you down . '
She gave me a song but she did n't know it.I took that thing and I hummed it all the way home from the bar .
At night I went to bed and I was still thinking of it .
I got up the next day and put one and one together , two and two together , trying to piece it out - taking things out , putting things in .
I finally got it down right , got it together , got it down in my head .
Then I went and sang it , and everybody went , Wow !
Then I did n't do it no more , not in the bar .
I figured somebody would grab it before I got it copyrighted .
So I sent it to Washington , D.C. , the Library of Congress , and I got it copyrighted .
After I got it copyrighted I could do it in the bar .
So then if anybody got the idea to do it I had them by the neck , because I had it copyrighted .
About two months later I recorded it .
I was on Vee-Jay then .
And the record shot straight to the top .
Then , after I did it , the Animals turned around and did it .
That barmaid felt pretty good .
She went around telling everybody I got John Lee to write that song .
I gave her some bread for it , too , so she was pretty happy . ''
Many Blues bands have covered this over the years , including The Animals and The Yardbirds .
It has become a Blues standard .
Hooker did n't play this live for a long time , because he feared that he would n't do it justice .
He finally played it in his last two shows before his death .
This was used in a 2002 commercial for The Gap .
In the ad , it was performed on roller skates by Baba Oje , a former member of Arrested Development .
The advertising campaign , dubbed `` For Every Generation , '' used a variety of artists , including Willie Nelson , Ryan Adams , and Natalie Imbruglia .
Hooker performed this when he appeared in the 1980 movie The Blues Brothers .
It was the only movie Hooker ever appeared in .
Members of Motown 's house band -LRB- known as The Funk Brothers -RRB- played on this .
The Funk Brothers were outstanding musicians and played on hundreds of hit records , but Motown did n't pay them very well , so they would take gigs at other labels in the Detroit area to make extra cash .
In 1992 , this was used in a UK ad for Levi 's jeans .
It was re-released that year and went to # 16 .
-LRB- thanks , Brad Wind - Miami , FL -RRB-
