Brooks explained in The Garth Brooks Story that this song about encountering what was once the girl of your dreams many years later is based on a true story .
Said the singer : '' ` Unanswered Prayers ' was a big part of my heart that went out on that record .
A true life thing that happened to Sandy -LRB- his wife at the time -RRB- and myself .
In October of ' 89 , I saw my old high school flame .
And I can say this now at the time I could n't .
For the first two years of my married life , I really thought the girl that was for me was still that girl that was in high school .
And now man just the realization that what you have is the best for you , and the best you could ever do in your lifetime .
It sure makes you sleep well at night . ''
Brooks wrote this song along with Pat Alger and Larry Bastian .
Alger , who recorded his own version and included it as the closing track on his 1994 album , Seeds , told us : `` Both Garth and I , there 's a pretty good age difference between us , I think about 14 years .
But we seem to have similar experiences in our youthful lives that we called on several times in songs , and this was the first one where we had a similar experience .
His happened at a football game ; mine was similar , but just did n't happen at a football game .
I ran into my old high school girlfriend about 10 years after the fact and was quite pleased with the way things had turned out .
And that 's really the essence of the song , you wish for things and then sometimes you 're really glad the Lord was n't listening .
Or , as they say , he was listening and decided not to play ball with you for whatever reason . ''
-LRB- Here 's our full Pat Alger interview . -RRB-
Brooks explained to The Boot that the only part of this song that is untrue is the location .
Said Garth : `` That 's what happened to me , word for word , except it was n't at a hometown football game , it was at a Kraft 's fair bazaar that was a fundraiser for rehabilitated 18-year-old boys that had been out of prison but back to get their GED , and that 's what this little ranch was .
It was hard to make that fit in the song . ''
This song made it 's live debut the same day it was written .
Garth Brooks performed at the Bluebird Cafe in Nashville that evening , and invited Alger to come along and play on the song .
Said Alger : `` Usually , I like to live with the song for a little while and tweak it up and there 's always some lyric that needs a little tightening and a melody line that needs tweaking .
But we decided to go down and do it that night at the Bluebird .
And right after the chorus , everybody started applauding .
So I guess we had a little bit of a validation there . ''
Brooks said of this song in the liner notes to his 1994 collection The Hits : `` Every time I sing this song it teaches me the same lesson .
Happiness is n't about getting what you want , it 's wanting what you 've got . ''
A two-hour Lifetime TV movie inspired by this song aired in 2010 .
The film centers on a man -LRB- Eric Close -RRB- happily married to his wife -LRB- Samantha Mathis -RRB- but who must make a tough choice when his high school crush -LRB- Madchen Amick -RRB- comes to town .
Pat Alger says the message in this song is `` kind of a Protestant concept . ''
He adds , `` You 're supposed to use that lesson to relate to the rest of your future life .
That 's the point of it .
That 's the sermon , I guess you 'd say .
Over the years , I 've talked to a lot of pastors who 've used that as a jumping off place for a sermon . ''
From a technical perspective , this is an unusual song : the chorus repeats just twice , and it goes to the bridge before the second chorus is repeated .
Alger explains : `` If I have to repeat the chorus more than 2 or 3 times in a song , I feel like I have n't written a very good song .
So this was especially the parsimonious use of the chorus .
So we only used it twice .
And one of the reasons was we thought in a sense it 's a joke .
In fact , early , before it was recorded , I would play it out , people always laughed at the first chorus .
Chuckled , not guffawed .
But they chuckled in the sense that you recognize yourself in the picture , kind of chuckle .
So I always thought if you have something like that , you ca n't just repeat it ad infinitum .
Obviously the joke will go stale .
So I thought , for whatever brilliant reason , we only repeated it twice .
And it retrospect , it also sounds like I 'm proclaiming that I was a genius and had that idea at the time , but I think we only realized it after the fact that that 's what we 'd done .
That 's an interesting thing to pay attention to . ''
