Chamillionaire -LRB- Hakeem Seriki -RRB- recorded this song about policing Hip-Hop with the help of rapper Slick Rick .
The video features Chamillionaire being arrested for `` Hip Hop crimes '' and an anchorman reports on a national crackdown on rappers including Jay Z , Kanye West and Eminem .
On rapindustry.com , Chamillionaire says : `` The inspiration came from watching so many videos talking about the club and VIP , and I 'm like wow , we all doing the same thing and not realizing it .
I 'm do something different .
I know people think the record is about the actual police but its not , its about people trying to police Hip-Hop in general . ''
Unlike many Hip-Hop tracks , there are no profanities in this song and even Radio Disney has given it airplay .
However a radio-friendly clean version still had to be recorded where references to firearms and controlled substances have been edited out .
Chamillionaire comments on artistdirect.com : `` The average mind will listen to it and think , ` another police record , ' but it 's really about people policing Hip-Hop .
These days , it 's become the equivalent of committing a murder to love Hip-Hop .
There 's so much controversy : n-word , f-word , b-word .
All this negative press surrounding Rap .
So it 's basically a story about that .
Definitely a conversation piece .
And featuring the legendary Slick Rick '' Chamillionaire talks about the album on sixshot.com : `` I named it the Sound Of Revenge for 2 reasons and one is because there are people out there that will go to sleep feeling very good at night if I fail .
The thought of my failure is a good feeling to some people and this album is gon na give them the opposite of that feeling .
Some people feel like it 's their job to try and crush your confidence and I do n't let anything or what anyone says stop me from being successful and success is the best revenge .
The goal is to make an album that the world will love and I intend to drop an album that sounds like I was successful in my attempt .
There are people who hype up everything and do n't live up to the hype and I want my music to match the hype of the album . ''
