This song is the opening track on Country music artist Justin Moore 's self-titled debut album .
Moore told Great American Country about how he and Rutherford came to write this autobiographical song : `` He was just asking me how I grew up and what kind of kid I was .
I said , ' I was a pretty good kid .
I mean , I did some stupid stuff like any other kid does , but for the most part I was pretty good . '
I said something like , ' I guess that 's how I got to be this way , ' and he said , ` Right there .
What was some of the stuff you did ? '
I told him I totaled my dad 's truck on Dixonville curve when I was in high school , and we went from there .
The first line says , ' I rolled my dad 's truck off the Dixonville curve after drinking my fifth beer . '
That 's a pretty true song .
Most of the stuff that happened in it actually happened .
There 's a pretty funny line in the song that says something about getting kicked in the face by a horse .
Everybody is always like , ` No way . '
I said , ` That 's my excuse for why my face looks like this . ' ''
This was co-written by American Country music songwriter Rivers Rutherford , whose résumé includes the # 1 Country song of 2001 , Brooks & Dunn 's `` Ai n't Nothing ` Bout You . ''
Moore told Great American Country about their collaboration : `` Rivers has more hits than I will have in the next 30 years as a writer and it was cool to write with him .
That was the only time we 've written .
When you get in these rooms with folks you 've never written with before , you kind of B.S. for a while and learn about each other . ''
This was a last minute addition to the Justin Moore album .
Moore explained to The Boot : `` I had about everything done for the album -LSB- when -RSB- I found the demo for that song in my iPhone when I was on my radio tour .
I was with a guy from the label , and I said , ` Man , listen to this song ... I just found it .
I had kind of forgotten about it . '
He goes , ` Dude , we 've got to put this on the album ! '
You know me , I 'm kind of laid back and nonchalant .
I was like , ` alright ... whatever . '
So I 'm glad we put it on there . ''
