This was produced by Ron Browz , who also features on the song 's chorus .
Busta Rhymes explained to MTV News that he originally got the track with just the beat and the hook .
When he first heard the producer 's contribution during VMA weekend , he was puzzled .
The rapper explained : `` I did n't really know what he was saying .
I called him on the phone .
We were going shopping for the awards .
I was riding around , and we were playing the beat over .
I wanted to know what he was saying .
-LSB- Ron -RSB- picked up the phone , and I was like , ` What are you saying on this joint ? '
I thought it was saying ` Maybach Money . '
` Maybach ' or ` Arab ' - it kinda rhymed .
I needed confirmation .
`` Browz explained to Busta that he was , in fact , saying `` Arab . ''
The rapper told MTV News : `` I was like , ` This is genius . '
Just the timing of this .
The fact that the recession was crazy .
Fortune 500 companies left and right are needing bailouts .
I was like , ` You ai n't hearing none of that going on with none of the people in the Arab community or Arab culture .
None of that . '
I was like , ` You know something ?
This is a great record to inspire people to incorporate wealth in their vocabulary , because rich has become the new broke . '
` Arab Money ' - it felt right .
Let 's take something from a culture that has exemplified the rich qualities of spirituality and economic and financial stability for thousands of years .
They 've instilled that in their kids for thousands of years . ''
The song caused offense to many who heard it , especially those of the Muslim faith , who complained that it poked fun at Arabs and was racist .
Busta Rhymes responded to MTV News : `` It did n't hurt me , because I leave room for error , and I understand what happens in misunderstanding .
It would have hurt me if people would have understood clearly the agenda of the record and still hated on it .
That would have been a little different .
But I feel a lot of people who had issues with it , they just misunderstood .
Even those people , I hope they got a chance to see or get a chance to see what my real intent was and still is - that they got a different level of appreciation . ''
