This song is Steve 's own personal story about two people named Joe , his brother and his uncle Joe .
The first part of the song is based on his brother , who tours with him while he 's in Nashville .
While Steve was playing shows across the country , his brother always seemed to be late .
His Uncle Joe , his mother 's little brother , was the mayor of Clarksdale and wanted to be the governor of Mississippi .
He was never able to do so because when he was 35 he died from cancer .
-LRB- thanks , Landon - Winchester , OH -RRB- The actor Morgan Freeman not only appears in the video , but narrates it .
And , as Azar told us , it did n't cost him a thing : `` The video was really what set that song apart .
Having Morgan Freeman in it was a gift .
It was one of those things where if you ask , the worse thing they can say is ` no . '
You never know .
He had moved back to Mississippi .
My mom grew up on Highway 61 in a grocery store , on top of it .
And my cousin 's got this famous bar-b-cue place called Abe 's Bar-B-Q that Paul Simon and Elvis Costello and Robert Plant , you name 'em , they 've been there .
My cousin 's bar-b-q place sits right down the street from where my mom grew up on Highway 61 and the 49 split .
When people talk about the crossroads and all that , well , it crossroads in there .
It crossroads in a lot of places in a lot of people 's minds , in the history and the lure of the delta .
But with that said , he had moved back to a town that was back in Charleston , Mississippi , that was just down the street .
And we just called .
Morgan heard the song and he goes , ` You know what ?
This song matters .
I 'll not only do the narrative , I 'll be in the video . '
And it was just a wonderful gift.I was on the same label that Shania was , and they had spent gobs of money on her video at the time , and we had spent pennies on the dollar compared to that , and we had Morgan in it .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- He did n't even charge me anything . ''
In our 2010 interview with Steve Azar , the Mississippi native explained : `` When I wrote ` Waitin ' On Joe , ' it was n't a song .
The verses were three separate verses .
I was really sort of poking fun at the beginning .
Then I started thinking about what I was waiting on , and how I grew up in a town that flourished , between the farming and the river , it survived and it died and it lived and breathed from the water .
And I had one particular friend whose dad spent his whole life on the river , and it really consumed him .
He was never at ease at home when he was there .
It 's almost like the water had just taken over his soul .
As kids we did n't see it .
But as an adult I can look back and say that he was never comfortable on dry land .
And he could n't settle in .
And then I had an uncle who passed away .
He would have been governor of Clarksdale , Mississippi .
He was this great man who cared about people , and he had a horrible battle with cancer .
So I used a train analogy to be the cancer .
So there was a lot going on in my head .
And then one day this chorus came , and it just glued it together . ''
