Brian Wilson of The Beach Boys wrote this song in collaboration with Jan Berry from Jan & Dean .
It 's very similar to many of the Beach Boys recordings , starting with the vocal hook `` Two girls for every boy '' and moving into the harmonies and chord progressions that were typical of Wilson 's work .
The Beach Boys met Jan & Dean in the summer of 1962 when both groups played at a teen hop .
That fall , The Beach Boys served as Jan & Dean 's backing group on a few live dates for the duo .
As detailed in the DVD Brian Wilson Songwriter 1962 - 1969 , in 1963 Jan & Dean would record in a nearby studio , and Jan Berry struck up a friendship with Wilson .
When this song went to Jan & Dean , Murry Wilson , who was Brian 's father and the group 's manager , was furious , as he thought it should be a Beach Boys song .
Undeterred , the groups continued working together , with Wilson singing on Jan & Dean 's first album , and Dean Torrence doing lead vocals on The Beach Boys ' `` Barbara Ann . ''
Brian Wilson 's first draft of the song had a working title of `` Goody Connie Wo n't You Come Back Home . ''
Wilson was working with a few different artists at the time , including the girl group The Honeys .
He was extremely productive during this period , emulating Phil Spector as he focused on production and songwriting .
`` Surf City '' was his first # 1 hit , coming a year before The Beach Boys would top the charts with `` I Get Around . ''
Jan & Dean were ambassadors of the California culture in the mid-60s , scoring 11 Top-40 hits from 1963-1965 , mostly dealing with surfing , girls and cars .
Young people who were n't from California certainly wanted to be there after hearing this song about heading to the beach , and many of them did .
Dean Torrence said in Let It Rock , 1973 : `` We came to look at it like we were piloting a boat .
We 'd pull all these manoeuvers and then slow down and wait for our following to come around .
It was strange to think , that at one time , you could go out to Mallibu and there 'd be nobody out there .
Then , one day -- whoosh !
so crowded you could n't even get in the water .
And in some way we all were the cause of that whole situation . ''
