Rachel Crow was born on January 23 , 1998 and raised in Mead , Colorado by her adoptive parents Barbara and Kelly Crow as her biological mother suffered a crack cocaine addiction .
She sang her first song -LRB- `` Breathe '' -RRB- at 18 months-old and first performed in public at the age of six as part of her school 's talent show .
Rachel successfully auditioned at the age 13 for the first season of The X Factor in early 2011 placing fifth in the competition .
Following her successful run on the show , Rachel signed a music deal with Columbia Records and a TV deal with Nickelodeon for her own TV show .
This is the lead single from her debut EP , Rachel Crow , which was released June 26 , 2012 .
Rachel told Aol Music the song was inspired by her own personal experience with bullying , after being called a `` weirdo '' and a `` freak '' by her classmates .
`` Honestly , looking back at it , I feel sorry for all the mean girls and the bullies , '' she said .
`` I think there are two sides to everything , and one of the lines I wrote is ` Maybe somebody was cold to you .
so you think that 's what you 're suppose to do . '
That 's one of my favorite lines , because it 's true . ''
Rachel co-wrote the song with New York producer Toby Gad , the man behind hits for the likes of Beyoncé and Colbie Caillat and New York singer-songwriter Autumn Rowe who has also penned tunes for Leona Lewis and Cher Lloyd .
Toby Gad also produced the track .
Rachel explained to Artist Direct how she wrote this with Toby Gad : `` I first met Toby Gad the day we wrote the song , '' she explained .
`` We sat down and talked about it .
He was like , ` How was school for you ? '
I said , ' I was bullied by the mean girls because I had big curly hair , this unique personality , and I was different in every way . '
We thought it would be a good idea to write a song around that day .
It just blossomed from a little flower bud .
It was magical and crazy .
It 's about being yourself and not worrying about what other people think . ''
