This was the first rap song to sell over 500,000 copies and earn a certified gold record .
The album was also the first rap record released on a major label .
Kurtis signed with Mercury Records early in 1980 .
Kurtis took the idea for this song to his producers , J.B. Moore and Robert Ford .
J.B. came up with the concept of other implied meanings for `` breaks , '' like brakes on a bus or a car , good breaks or bad breaks in life .
Says Kurtis : `` He referred back to this old song , a philosophy song , I think it came out in 1920 or something , where a guy was talking , saying - ` Oh , your girlfriend left you , and you lost your job and your car got towed away , well do n't worry , tomorrow the sun will shine and everything will be alright ' - good breaks and bad breaks can happen in life , but do n't worry because there 's always another tomorrow .
We wanted to repeat that concept and have the many meanings within one song .
We put it together and had the greatest musicians play - John Tropea on guitar , Jimmy Bralower on drums , Larry Smith , who went on to produce Run-D.M.C. and Whoodini played the bass , Denzil Miller on keyboard . ''
Kurtis : `` There was no real marketing for the song , no plan .
We just wanted to make a kick-ass record and that 's exactly what we did .
The clubs ate it up .
You could n't find a club in America during the summer of 1980 that would not play this song around 12 , 1 o'clock in the morning . ''
-LRB- thanks to Kurtis for speaking to us about this song -RRB- Tom `` T-Bone '' Wolk played bass on this track , which got the attention of Hall and Oates , who enlisted him to join their backup band .
Wolk played on many of the duo 's hits as well as songs by Billy Joel , Robert Palmer and Elvis Costello before his death from a heart attack in 2010 at age 58 .
Kurtis told us : `` The concept was created as a tribute to all the breakers in and around the South Bronx and Harlem back in the early days of Hip-Hop .
I wanted to do a tribute song with many breaks so that the breakers could get down and do their thing .
When we danced during the breaks of a song , that was our time to go off - to do our best moves . ''
This ran 7:43 and was released as a 12-inch single , which was the same size as a record but contained just one song on each side , allowing for much longer songs than a typical 45 RPM single would hold .
It became the second certified gold 12-inch in all of music .
The first was Donna Summer and Barbra Streisand 's ` No More Tears -LRB- Enough Is Enough -RRB- , ' which came out in 1979 .
The short-lived European group Los Umbrellos recorded a Flamenco version of this song called `` Flamenco Funk '' in 1997 .
Los Umbrellos had a minor hit that year with `` No Tengo Dinero . ''
Kurtis performed this song on Soul Train , whose host and creator Don Cornelius told the rapper after the performance , `` It does n't make sense to old guys like me ... I do n't understand why they love it so much . ''
Cornelius , who was typically far more ingratiating to his guests , was expressing how many in his generation felt about the emergence of Hip-Hop .
Kurtis was gracious about it , but disappointed by Cornelius ' reaction .
The Soul Train host kept with the times , however , and had many more rappers on the show as the trend shifted in that direction .
By adapting the show to the musical landscape , Cornelius kept Soul Train on the air for 35 years .
