One of the themes of Garbage 's fifth album , Not Your Kind of People , is being a misfit in today 's self-conscious society , a topic that is especially pronounced on this torch ballad .
`` It is really ironic because when the band -LSB- initially -RSB- started taking off , I thought , ` Wow , I 'm no longer a geek !
I 'm cool !
I 'm hip !
I 'm popular ! ' ''
said vocalist and lyricist Shirley Manson to Spin magazine .
`` And of course , the feelings -LSB- of being an outsider -RSB- never went away . ''
The song borrows from `` Valentine 's Day '' by German countertenor Klaus Nomi .
It was guitarist and synth player Steve Marker who brought the tune to the band , having played some piano chords around the sample .
Drummer Butch Vig told MusicRadar.com how the band fleshed out the song .
`` We layered some more opera bits over it , '' he recalled .
`` I think Shirley added some vocal effects to try and gel the whole thing together .
It 's very amorphous and floaty ; it almost sounds like you 're drifting and falling off a ledge when Klaus ' vocal comes in . ''
`` At first , the sample was very dominant , '' he continued , `` but as the track developed , we realized that the song had to be a song , so the sample started to take more of a backseat ; we used it more as color .
I think it 's an absolutely gorgeous song . ''
Asked by Artist Direct where the song came from , Manson replied : `` In a funny way , I think that 's a song to ourselves .
As a band , we 've always felt a little misunderstood , and we realize , even with this new record , it 's sort of the same situation .
We 're just oddballs , and we always will be .
At this point in our lives , rather than feel like victims of being left out , we 're like , ` F -- k it ! '
We 're renegades .
We 're doing things on our own terms , and that 's fine.Whenever you do choose to live in a way that 's different from other people , they 're very fast to call you a freak , weirdo , or oddball .
That can feel very exclusive .
As a human being , you have to invert that idea and say , ` We 're doing things on our own terms .
This is how we see things .
I will do what I think is right not what everybody else tells me is right , and that 's okay . ' ''
