Harrison wrote this during the Beatles ' Let It Be sessions after he and Paul McCartney had a nasty fight .
In an interview with Crawdaddy magazine , Harrison explained : `` That was the song , when I left from the Let It Be movie , there 's a scene where Paul and I are having an argument , and we 're trying to cover it up .
Then the next scene I 'm not there and Yoko 's just screaming , doing her screeching number .
Well , that 's where I 'd left , and I went home to write ` Wah-Wah . '
It had given me a wah-wah , like I had such a headache with that whole argument .
It was such a headache .
`` Harrison temporarily quit that day .
It was n't the first time a Beatle had quit , though .
Ringo Starr walked out during the recording of the White Album .
Still , it was McCartney who made headlines when he quit early in 1970 .
-LRB- thanks , Rob - Hartland , WI -RRB- On the album , the `` O'Hara-Smith Singers '' are credited on this track .
According to Whitlock , that was he and Clapton .
-LRB- For more on these sessions , check out our Bobby Whitlock interview -RRB- Bobby Whitlock played keyboards on the album .
After the sessions , he formed Derek and the Dominos with Eric Clapton , who also played on the album .
Says Whitlock , `` I was the last one to show up at the session - I was running late and my car went down on me .
It was getting started , I walked in and Phil Spector said , ` Phase those drums !
Phase those guitars ! '
He 's standing there looking out like he 's the captain of a ship , and he says , ` Phase everything ! '
A guy had to operate this phase shifter by hand , his name was Eddie Albert , and he had to work it by twisting this knob to the left , to the right , to the left , to the right .
You had to do it manually then .
He 's saying , ` Phase this , phase that , ' I come in , I 'm late and Billy Preston 's sitting down at the organ , Gary Brooker is on the piano , where 's my spot ?
Everything was on the downbeat .
I said , ` I 've got it , give me that little piano over there , I 've got my part . '
I played everything that nobody was playing - I played on the upbeat .
That 's me on the electric piano playing the exact opposite . ''
