The first single from American rapper Kanye West 's sixth studio album was released on May 17 , 2013 along with its video being projected onto various buildings .
The first projection went up in Williamsburg , Brooklyn , before being shown in a total of 66 different locations in North America , Europe , and Australia .
The song finds West tackling themes centering around racism .
He starts by referencing his mom 's experiences growing up in the era of segregation in the fifties when there were separate water fountains for white people and African Americans .
Ye then tackles being broke and not being able to `` touch anything in the store '' as he was stereotyped as a black man who probably just wanted to steal something .
This samples the 1969 song `` Gyöngyhajú lány '' -LRB- `` The Girl with Pearly Hair '' -RRB- by Hungarian rock band Omega .
The song 's TV premiere was on May 18 , 2013 , when West performed it on Saturday Night Live .
Yeezus debuted at the # 1 slot in 31 countries after its release on June 18 , 2013 despite being leaked online four days earlier .
The minimal track was produced by Hudson Mohawke .
The Glasgow native had premiered the tune in Warsaw , Poland the previous weekend .
Hudson Mohawke -LRB- real name Ross Birchard -RRB- is an electronic music producer/DJ who has received critical praise for his genre-smashing productions .
His other credits include Azealia Banks ' single `` Jumanji '' and Hurts ' track , `` Sandman . ''
The song title comes from the lyric .
`` They tryna lock niggas up , they tryna make new slaves .
See that 's that privately owned prisons , get your piece today . ''
West is blasting here the disproportionate number of blacks in prison on drug charges .
According to the rapper , this is an institutional racism as the drug enforcement agency has teamed up with the CCA -LRB- a company that owns and manages prisons -RRB- in order to supply the jails with prisoners .
By making laws that effect the drugs that the African Americans favor stiffer , more of them will go and stay in jail longer .
The song features a vocal contribution by Frank Ocean at the end .
West brought in Rick Rubin -LRB- Johnny Cash , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Beastie Boys -RRB- to help finish Yeezus and serve as its executive producer .
`` Everything I 've been doing , from the ` New Slaves ' video to the album with no artwork , I 've been thinking , ` What would Rick Rubin do ? ' ''
West told guests at the album 's playback .
West suggested in a tweet that the song 's second verse has yet to be beaten .
In it he rhymes about topics ranging from the disproportionate imprisonment of black people in America to the opulence of the Hamptons .
`` I open the debate , '' he tweeted .
`` The 2nd verse of New Slaves is the best rap verse of all time ... .
meaning ... OF ALL TIME IN THE HISTORY OF RAP MUSIC , PERIOD . ''
