Allentown is a town in Northeast Pennsylvania about 45 minutes away from the Pocono mountains .
An industrial town , many of the once-thriving factories and mills had fallen on hard times when Joel wrote the song , and unemployment in the area was at an all-time high of 12 % .
Also mentioned in the song is nearby Bethlehem , Pennsylvania , whose main employer , Bethlehem Steel , had been closing operations .
Joel sings about the unemployed workers in the line , `` Out in Bethlehem they 're killing time , filling out forms , standing in line . ''
The distinctive chord at the beginning was originally a mistake , but Joel decided he liked the way it sounded and left it in .
Joel played a benefit concert in Allentown , Pennsylvania on December 27 , 1982 as this song was climbing the charts .
Billy Joel did not grow up in Allentown - he grew up in Levittown , on Long Island .
In an interview with James Lipton on Inside the Actors Studio , he compared Allentown with his hometown while he was growing up , noting the similarities .
Joel stated that the original title was `` Levittown , '' and the original lyrics seemed kind of bland , and he felt that they would possibly be considered boring to the listeners .
Some of the original lyrics included lines like , `` Well we 're living here in Levittown .
And there 's really not much going down .
I do n't see much when I look around .
The grass is green , the trees are brown .
And we 're living here in Levittown . ''
So , during the time of the upcoming studio sessions for The Nylon Curtain , Billy took a trip to Pennsylvania .
It was here that he came up with the idea for new lyrics .
At that time , he originally had Bethlehem in mind , but people would suddenly get the impression that the song was religious .
The confusion would come from the fact that the place where the birth of Christ was said to have happened was Bethlehem , Israel .
It is worth noting that Bethlehem and Allentown are right next to each other .
So , he started writing down some lyrics for what later became the song `` Allentown . ''
-LRB- thanks , Kate - New Bedford , MA and Annabelle - Eugene , OR -RRB- The song starts with the blowing of a steam whistle in a factory .
This was common in the days of steel mills and lumber companies .
Usually , whistles were blown at the beginning of a work day , to summon workers to their duties , to announce shift changes , to call them to their lunch hour at noon , and at the end of a work day , to let them know that it was 5:00 and it was time to go home .
Also , when listened to carefully , in the background with the music , one can hear the rhythmic pounding of a pile driver , a machine for delivering repeated blows to the top of a pile for driving it into the ground .
The machine consists of a frame which supports and guides a hammer weight , together with a mechanism for raising and dropping the hammer or for driving the hammer by air or steam .
-LRB- thanks , Annabelle - Eugene , OR -RRB- The video was directed by Russell Mulcahy , whose work was all over MTV in their early years , with many videos to his credit by Fleetwood Mac , Elton John and Duran Duran .
Billy Joel had little interest in music videos , so he let the directors control them .
The `` Allentown '' video stays true to the song in the sense that we see young men coming back from the war and struggling to find work , but these men are far more shirtless and muscular than you would expect .
In I Want My MTV by Craig Marks , Joel said : `` It 's really gay .
There 's a shower scene with all these good-looking , muscular young steel workers who are completely bare assed .
And then they 're all oiled up and twisting valves and knobs .
I 'd missed this completely when I was doing the video .
I just thought it was like The Deer Hunter . ''
