Springsteen wrote this about his difficulty writing a hit single and his frustration trying to write songs that will please people .
Ironically , it was a hit single - the biggest of his career in terms of chart position .
In the 1985 Rolling Stone reader 's poll , this was voted Single of the Year This won Springsteen his first Grammy .
In 1985 , it got the award for Best Male Vocal .
Due to its catchy beat , the somewhat depressing lyrics to this song were lost on most listeners .
Springsteen 's `` Born In The U.S.A. '' had the same thing happen , as the message was lost in the music .
In 1985 , Tina Turner performed this on her Private Dancer tour .
Her version appears on the album Tina Turner - Live in Tokyo .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- The original concept for the music video was to have Springsteen literally dancing in the dark - shot against against a black background .
Jeff Stein was the director , and Daniel Pearl , famous for his cinematography on `` Every Breath You Take , '' was the director of photography .
Pearl and Springsteen got in a kerfuffle over how he should be shot , with Springsteen wanting a filter and Pearl insisting on hard lighting .
Bruce walked out after a few takes , and ended up shooting the video with Brian DePalma .
A few years later , despite his efforts to avoid Springsteen , Pearl found himself working on the `` Human Touch '' video .
Pearl says that Springsteen apologized for the `` Dancing In The Dark '' debacle and asked to work with him again , as he realized Pearl was right about the lighting .
Directed by Brian DePalma , the video was filmed at the St. Paul Civic Center in Minnesota on June 28 , 1984 .
The audience was not real : it was made up of about 200 extras .
Courteney Cox got the role of the adoring fan in the front row who gets to dance on stage with Bruce .
She landed a role on the sitcom Family Ties soon after.The video was contrived and certainly did not capture the raw energy of his live shows , but it was Springsteen 's first clip to get heavy airplay on MTV , and introduced him to a new , mostly younger audience .
This was the last song written for Born In The U.S.A. Springsteen wrote this after his manager , Jon Landau , demanded a hit single from the album .
After a brief altercation , he complied and wrote this that same night .
Springsteen had over 70 songs written for Born In The U.S.A. , but his manager , Jon Landau , wanted a guaranteed hit to ensure superstar status for Springsteen .
This was the first of 7 top 10 singles on Born In the U.S.A. and the only one released before the album .
A rather intriguing cover of this song was by the group Big Daddy , who hit # 21 UK with their version .
The concept behind Big Daddy is that a band crash landed on an island while out on tour in the late '50s or early '60s , and when they were rescued in the early '80s , tried to revive their career .
Music had changed drastically by then , so they started covering '80s music in the only style they knew how to play .
The result is a kind of modern Pat Boone sound .
