Frontman James Allan felt bad about penning the Glasvegas track `` Daddy 's Home , '' in which he criticized his absent father .
He explained to the Sunday Mail that this song is an attempt to tell another side of his father 's story .
Said the Scottish vocalist : `` I felt a lot of guilt about the song Daddy 's Gone .
I felt bad , as it only showed one side of my father .
God knows he beats himself up enough.When I wrote the songs for the first album I never imagined it going out to all those people .
The Everly Brothers wrote a song about a boyfriend talking to his girlfriend and all he can do is dream to get close to her .
In this song it 's my father dreaming about his brother , who committed suicide , and how his thoughts and dreams can give him relief as he can see or speak to him .
It was instinct that I turned words into solid things , on a CD or vinyl record .
Maybe it makes up a little for Daddy 's Gone . ''
Allan recalled to Q magazine visiting Uncle James 's flat as a boy and seeing Biblical quotations written on betting slips .
Allan 's father eventually stopped drinking with his brother because , `` his company was too heavy , the thing 's he 'd talk about . ''
He added : `` The song is a love letter from my dad to his dead brother .
I suppose I wrote it cos ` Daddy 's Gone ' was only one side of the coin .
It was hard for him , too .
He was just a young guy who was lost in his way and when I meet up with him I recognize we 're pretty similar . ''
The track is a love song about both Allan 's father and also his uncle , after whom he was named , and who hanged himself when James was in his early teens .
He explained to the NME : `` I was thinking about ` Mister Sandman , ' you know , ` Mister Sandman , bring me a dream ; ' and it 's a really sad song .
And I thought about The Everly Brothers , -LRB- their version of -RRB- ` All I Have To Do Is Dream , ' and what those songs were saying was that for some people ; the closest they 're gon na get to the lover that they want or to getting something that 's gon na ease that pain or just a bit of release , they do it through a dream , and I thought that was the saddest thing .
But then I thought if that 's all somebody 's got , man , then that 's all somebody 's got and that 's that . ''
