Despite her large cult following and Rock and Roll Hall of Fame career -LRB- she was inducted in 2007 -RRB- , this was Patti Smith 's only hit , making it an anomaly in her discography , which was aimed at a far more narrow audience .
For many not familiar with Smith 's career or the history of Punk , this is the only recognizable song of hers .
The producers of the 2013 movie CBGB , played to this audience when they portrayed singing this song at the famous club in 1975 - two years before she recorded it and a year before it was written .
In the film , Smith was played by Mickey Sumner , who is Sting 's daughter .
Springsteen gave this to Smith with the music and the chorus .
She filled in the lyrics one night while waiting for her husband to call .
Smith bought her dad a new 1978 Cordoba with the money she made from this .
Smith was hesitant to use a song written by someone else , but changed her mind when she heard Springsteen 's demo .
As The Boss was struggling to finish this song , he agreed to Jimmy Iovine 's request that Patti Smith could complete it .
Springsteen explained why to Mojo magazine August 2010 : `` It was a love song and I really was n't writing them at the time .
I wrote these very hidden love songs like For You , or Sandy , maybe even Thunder Road , but they were always coming from a different angle .
My love songs were never straight out , they were n't direct .
That song needed directness and at the time I was uncomfortable with it .
I was hunkered down in my samurai position .
Darkness ... was about stripping away everything - relationships , everything - and getting down to the core of who you were .
So that song is the great missing song from Darkness On The Edge .
I could not have finished it as good as she did .
She was in the midst of her love affair with Fred ` Sonic ' Smith and she had it all right there on her sleeve .
She put it down in a way that was just quite wonderful . ''
Bruce Springsteen wrote this song .
He gave it to Patti Smith in 1976 because he thought it would suit her voice .
He was also in a legal battle with his manager , Mike Appel , that kept him from recording for almost three years .
Springsteen joined Smith on Stage several times in 1976-1977 , while legal battles kept him from recording .
Smith 's producer on the Easter album was Jimmy Iovine , who would go on to great things as a producer and entrepreneur , but was still getting started in the business at the time .
`` Because The Night '' was his first hit as a producer , and he credits Bruce Springsteen for granting him the opportunity .
Iovine had worked on Bruce 's 1975 Born To Run album , and Springsteen have him the song to deliver to Smith .
This `` really launched by career , '' Iovine said .
After this song became a hit , Smith dismissed it as `` commercial sh-t . ''
She admitted that it was a well-written song , but did n't want it to define her career .
-LRB- thanks , Adam - Dewsbury , England -RRB-
