This was originally released by Public Enemy on their 1988 album It Takes A Nation Of Millions To Hold Us Back .
Chuck D , who is the leader of Public Enemy , is n't a fan of R&B ballads , but likes Heavy Metal , which left him open to a collaboration with Anthrax .
Said Chuck : `` Metal has attitude and it has speed , and that 's two things that I like . ''
He took some lessons from the marketing side of Metal as well , telling Melody Maker : `` Metal records give a lot more in terms of sleeve information and imagery .
That 's why metal groups stay tight with their audiences for so long .
In rap , groups are treated like they 're disposable , and so they become disposable .
Heavy metal groups are involved in how their music is presented , packaged , marketed .
They have control of the merchandising and their logos , whereas the vast majority of rap groups have no control at all . ''
This song gave Anthrax a big boost , which led to a $ 10 million deal with Elektra Records .
Anthrax 's Scott Ian said that Public Enemy was his favorite band on the planet in the late 1980s .
He explained : `` They changed music .
-LSB- Their 1987 LP -RSB- It Takes A Nation Of Millions To Hold Us Back , I compare that album to the Beatles ' Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band or Guns 'N Roses ' Appetite For Destruction or Led Zeppelin 's IV .
It you make a list of albums that changed the world , that changed the way we hear music , that album has to be on that list . ''
Inspired by the Run-D.M.C. / Aerosmith union on `` Walk This Way , '' Anthrax teamed up with Chuck D of Public Enemy on this for one of the first rap-rock collaborations .
The groups toured together after it was released , which was an interesting move for Public Enemy , as they went after white headbangers to build their fan base .
It proved that there was a natural crossover between Hardcore Rap and Heavy Metal , which share an aggression and sense of alienation from authority and tradition .
The tour started in the United States in September , 1991 and went to the UK in January , 1992 .
Anthrax is one of the groups Public Enemy mentions in the original version of the song : `` Wax is for Anthrax , still it can rock bells . ''
