This was the second single to be taken from Keep on Loving You , Reba McEntire 's first recording for the Valory Music Group and her twenty-sixth studio album in total .
This was McEntire 's 34th country chart-topper of her illustrious career .
Its reign at the top of the charts expanded Reba 's run of # 1 hits to 26 years .
Her first song to reach peak position was `` Ca n't Even Get the Blues '' in January 1983 .
The cut was the first Country Songs # 1 by a lead female artist not named Carrie Underwood or Taylor Swift since Sara Evans ' `` Real Fine Place to Start '' in the fall of 2005 .
In the four year span between the two female-led chart-toppers Underwood notched eight # 1s and Swift four .
McEntire discussed this song with Great American Country : `` It 's a strong woman song .
I 'm sure there are tons of women who get the cold shoulder when the husband comes in from work .
He 's had a rough day and she 's had three kids at home , especially if it 's summer .
He does n't want to talk , something 's going on and it 's confrontation time .
If you are giving me the cold shoulder , if you 're not wanting to talk to me , and if things are n't getting any better and if I do n't turn you on , consider me gone .
Here 's the way the cow eats the cabbage .
It 's like , let 's poop or get off the pot .
Tell it like it is .
It 's a pretty cool song and it 's confrontation time .
That is one thing that is wrong with relationships , that there 's not enough communication . ''
The song 's ascension to the top position in the first chart of 2010 meant that McEntire had reached # 1 on Country Songs in four decades .
Dolly Parton -LRB- '70s - ' 00s -RRB- is the only other female artist to achieve that feat .
The song was written by Steve Diamond and Marv Green .
Diamond told AOL 's The Boot , the story of the song : `` One thing I love about writing with Marv is we usually come in with no preconceived notion .
We just started strumming some chords ... I came out with the first line , ` Every time I turn the conversation to something deeper than the weather ... ' And the melody came out in the verse.We did want to write about the inattentiveness of men sometimes !
-LSB- laughs -RSB- I know in my own case , I do n't always pay attention to my wife and what she needs .
And this was a song about a woman just wanting to have some power in a relationship ... and to be able to dictate some terms.We did n't have a title , but we had all the chords .
So we tried a few other things , like , ` I 'm outta here , ' and ` I 'm not gon na let that happen again ' ... because we did n't start with the chorus , and the chorus does n't start with the title .
So we fished around for awhile to see if we could find a title.But the song did flow ... pretty much everything but the title !
And then once we had that , everything else fell into place .
We just kind of went with it ... almost like jamming , if you 're a couple of guitar players .
We got most of it that day , and we finished it up the next day .
Sometimes when you let it sit for a while , that last little piece becomes clearer ... We were excited when we left the first day , but when we came back the second day , we felt we really had something.We 're absolutely thrilled that Reba heard it and loved it .
It 's mind-blowing to us , because Reba is such an icon and her hits are going to be as big as hits could ever be .
So we were thrilled to find out it was her biggest record .
And she is so cool .
She called me the other day , and she called Marv , as well , to thank us for the song and to congratulate us .
She has been exceptionally gracious with her appreciation and her congratulations . ''
