This is the third single from Country music artist Luke Bryan 's second album , Doin ' My Thing .
The singer wrote the song with his producer Jeff Stevens .
Bryan and Stevens penned the song as the two colleagues traveled together while Luke was on tour .
The producer told The Boot the story of the tune : '' ` Someone Else Calling You Baby ' was written from that raw emotion that you feel when someone you love rejects you , '' explained Stevens .
`` Just about everybody knows the feeling and it was easy to write because it 's something you never forget when it happens to you .
It 's one of those powerful , unexpected events that changes your life in an instant .
I was on Luke 's bus somewhere out on the road and he started singing some of the first verse off the top of his head and I thought , ` Yeah I 've been there . '
We wrote it in just a few minutes - the big guitar lick and all . ''
The song became Bryan 's second country chart-topper when it climbed to # 1 on the chart dated February 26 , 2011 .
The song finds the narrator confronting his girl after she asked for a break from their relationship , only for him to see her later sitting in a truck with another guy in her driveway .
Bryan told The Boot that whilst the choice of the first two singles from his Doin ' My Thing was clear , when it came to the third , there were several options .
`` We knew ` Do I ' was the runaway first single , and we really knew that ` Rain ' was the second , '' Bryan explained .
`` We got to ` Someone Else Calling You Baby , ' and we had hundreds of conversations and pulled everybody in together to talk about it , probably a little too many .
We narrowed it down to ` What Country Is , ' ` Every Time I See You ' and ` Someone Else Calling You Baby . ' '' ''
` What Country Is , ' I worship that song , '' the Georgia singer added .
`` I absolutely love it , but we felt that people kind of know that about me .
When we looked at ` Someone Else Calling You Baby , ' I just felt like it was a great , driving , uptempo song , and it was something everybody relates to again .
When you hear that chorus one time , you do n't really have to hear it many more times , and it 's with you .
I just felt like I needed that kind of song . ''
