The simple lyrics disguise the theme .
In Greek mythology , the souls of the departed were carried across the river Styx to an afterlife : heaven or hell .
The passage across the river was by boat , and the pilots were Tillermen -LRB- Tea for the Tillerman -RRB- .
The catch is , which way were the boats going ?
Were they long , longer or longest boats ?
Stevens uses this riddle to leave uncertainty about which boat to catch .
The moral of this song is , hold on to innocence , it is the `` key to the door . ''
It is a very old moral and Stevens is n't the only poet to use it in this -LRB- or any other -RRB- century .
Dylan has referred to it as well , in `` Shelter From The Storm '' when he describes Christ 's conversation on the cross , with `` I offered up my innocence . ''
Since Milton in Paradise Lost , poets have bemoaned the price that was paid when Adam took a bite out of the apple and exchanged innocence for self-knowledge .
There are poets that take the opposite view : That independence and free will are better than slavery in the service of a God .
Joni Mitchell -- `` Do n't Interrupt the Sorrow , '' `` Hissing of Summer Lawns , '' Peter Gabriel - `` Blood of Eden , '' `` Secret Place , '' Ian Anderson -LRB- Jethro Tull -RRB- -- almost any song from Aqualung .
Another example is `` Youngstown , '' from The Ghost of Tom Joad by Bruce Springsteen .
The ending of this song defiantly salutes common humanity -LRB- I 'm taking it out of context a little , I 'm sure Springsteen did n't intend it to be anti-Christian -RRB- - `` When I die do n't want no part of heaven , I 'd not do heaven 's work well , I pray the devil comes and takes me , to stand in the fiery furnaces of hell . ''
-LRB- thanks , Glenn - Dunedin , New Zealand , for all above -RRB- The verses discuss the `` price '' of the trip - what gets you into heaven or keeps you out .
You can believe the -LRB- virgin -RRB- Mary and the parson -LRB- Rev. CL Dodgson -- from Alice , remember he told the story while boating -RRB- are committing the original sin if you want to , but I think Stevens is suggesting they are innocent , as is the flower in the second verse .
It 's just another name for God .
Steven 's believes that all religions serve this God : Christianity , Buddhism and Islam .
According to Q Magazine this song was inspired by an alien encounter .
Stevens recounted to a journalist in 1973 lying in bed , seeing a flying saucer and being `` sucked '' into it .
