This is the title track from French electronic pop singer Charlotte Gainsbourg 's third studio album .
Charlotte is the daughter of British actress and singer Jane Birkin and French actor/singer Serge Gainsbourg .
Gainsbourg presented Beck with her fragmentary lyrics , which he reformed .
The French chanteuse told The Observer January 10 , 2010 with self-deprecation : `` Beck kept pushing me to write , but my father 's genius weighs too heavy on me . ''
She then explained exactly what her input was .
`` Well , he 'd start with a rhythm and I 'd react .
Then , he 'd gradually build a song .
I came up with a few words and titles , '' she said , `` but mainly I came to him with ideas and directions that I wanted to take .
I brought some books : the poetry of Apollinaire , Through the Looking-Glass .
Just clues for him , really .
We did n't have profound ideas or discussions .
He just guessed what I wanted to sing about . ''
The album title was chosen to reflect Gainsbourg 's experiences of 2007 , when she had surgery following a brain hemorrhage and the hypnotic sounds of the MRI scanner remained with her - `` IRM '' is French for `` MRI '' .
She explained to Mojo October 2009 : `` I fell water skiing .
A few months later I had constant headaches , and doctors found there was blood causing pressure on my brain .
I could have died .
I had many scans , and the sound of the MRI scanner stuck with me .
When Beck and I talked about how I wanted the music to sound , I played him the scanner - I found it on the internet-and said I wanted to incorporate it .
I 'll never forget that sound . ''
The record is a collaboration with American musician Beck , who co-wrote all the song 's apart from `` Le Chat Du Café Des Artistes . ''
He explained : `` I pulled a bunch of songs out .
And then I wrote a few , with her in mind , but when we spent time together they changed because I got more of a feeling of where she wanted to go .
We got in the studio and I could see all the possibilities . ''
On the album , Gainsbourg is backed by Beck 's regular band , comprising drummers Joey Waronker and James Gadson , keyboardist Brian LeBarton , trumpeter David Ralicke and Beck 's father , David Campbell , on string arrangements .
