Written by Stryper 's lead singer Michael Sweet , `` Honestly '' was the only song by a Christian Metal band ever to crack the Top-40 .
While the group did take a more secular approach to their songs a few years later , the To Hell with the Devil era Stryper was overtly Christian in their music .
`` Honestly '' can be viewed as a song about human friendship , but all of Sweet 's compositions at that time also touched on the love of God .
In our 2011 interview with Michael Sweet , he told us : `` We just wanted to serve God , and we just said , Lord , we just want to be used .
We want to be different .
We want to go out and reach these kids . ''
Ballads by Metal bands were just starting to come into vogue when Stryper released this song .
And as Sweet explains , they were one of the first : `` We were doing ballads back before there were power ballads .
When I say that , I mean the '80s power ballads , the metal power ballads .
We were stepping out , we were playing all these clubs with Ratt and all these bands , and they never did any ballads , ever .
We were adding ballads to our set .
And then power ballads in the '80s became very popular .
I remember people wondering if we had just kind of jumped on the bandwagon and the fact is , we were always doing ballads . ''
`` Honestly '' fit right in on MTV and pop playlists , and most people had no idea that Stryper was a Christian band .
They had the requisite long hair and spandex , and their sound was n't all that different from many other hair bands , but Poison and Skid Row were n't throwing Bibles from the stage .
Despite their sincere and creative efforts to spread the Word , Stryper still ran into resistance from some church leaders - Jerry Fallwell called them `` A wolf in sheep 's clothing . ''
Michael Sweet told us : `` We took some serious flack and heat just for the look , the appearance , the sound .
But we have a calling upon our life , and that calling is between Michael , Robert , Oz , Tim , and God .
It 's not between the four of us and CCM community , or the church .
If God tells us to do something , we 're going to go and do it .
If He tells us to go play a bar , we 're going to go play that bar .
If He tells us to go play with Slayer , we 're going to go play with Slayer . ''
Sweet wrote this song on the piano , which is how he writes most of his slow songs .
When it comes to writing these ballads , he told us : `` I have that side of me .
Call it a sensitive side or whatever it is , I just have this side that I really like to write ballads .
Because ballads , even though it 's not the edgy heavy stuff , there 's something to be said for a ballad , because it 's really an emotional roller coaster .
It dynamically comes down and you can really focus on the lyric and the emotion of the vocal .
And it 's very touchy .
There 's nothing like a great ballad .
It can really move you , and I thought it was very important to have that . ''
