This song was written by Dexys lead singer Kevin Rowland along with their trombone player Jim Paterson and keyboard man Micky Billingham .
The song is about the band , who had Celtic roots -LRB- Ireland and Scotland -RRB- , and a love for Soul music , which they made clear in songs like `` Jackie Wilson Said '' and `` Geno '' -LRB- about the American singer Geno Washington -RRB- .
Too-Rye-Ay was the band 's second album , but their first one released in America .
In the UK , Dexys had seven Top 40 hits by the time this charted , but in the US , it was just their second single , following their massive hit `` Come On Eileen , '' which rose up the ranks thanks to a video that made hot rotation on MTV .
`` The Celtic Soul Brothers '' had a video , but it lacked the storyline of `` Eileen '' and was ignored by MTV .
It got little radio support and topped out at # 86 on the Hot 100 , leaving the band on one-hit-wonder turf in America .
The music phrase that dominates this song was inspired by the song '' -LRB- There 's -RRB- Always Something There to Remind Me , '' which was written by Burt Bacharach and Hal David .
That song became a hit for the British singer Sandie Shaw , but it was originally recorded by an American Soul singer named Lou Johnson , putting it squarely in Dexys ' range of influences .
In our interview with Kevin Rowland , he said : `` We wanted a good rhythm , so we got that .
That 's a great song .
We often do that .
We put a song on and we say , ` We want to write something as good as this . '
We might use one phrase , but it 's not really nicked because the chords are different , so the harmony 's different .
The harmony of the melody over the chord . ''
In the UK , this was released ahead of `` Come On Eileen , '' but made it to just # 45 on the charts .
This prompted a change in marketing strategy for the band , who had declined all interviews when Too-Rye-Ay was released , choosing instead to promote the album with full-page ads explaining their reticence to do press and making their case for the album .
When it came time to release `` Eileen , '' the band once again accommodated journalists , resulting in some very contentious interviews with lead singer Kevin Rowland , who turned standoffish and insulting when questioned about his stage antics or raggedy attire .
The interviews served their purpose , and `` Eileen '' became the biggest-selling single of 1982 in the UK .
In its wake , `` The Celtic Soul Brothers '' was re-released , this time making # 20 .
