The first single from Canadian Alt-Rock duo Tegan and Sara 's seventh studio album , is a collaboration between the pair and Greg Kurstin .
The Californian producer has been responsible for a number of pop hits including Kelly Clarkson 's `` What Does n't Kill You -LRB- Stronger -RRB- '' and Pink 's `` Blow Me -LRB- One Last Kiss -RRB- . ''
Sara told Spin that hiring Kurstin reflected their desire to develop a more glossy , radio-friendly sound for the record .
`` No matter how we 've written songs in the past , '' she said , `` we 'd fall back on our old patterns and techniques .
We wanted to work with people who would break us out of that .
We were determined to make our most accessible and poppiest album .
Every day in the studio has been a big surprise . ''
The song was made available for download Sept 25 , 2012 .
The tune was Tegan and Sara 's first ever to appear on Billboard 's Alternative Songs chart .
Tegan wrote the majority of the song , but Sara and Greg Kurstin collaborated with her on the chorus .
She recalled to Under The Radar : `` By the time we 'd gotten to the studio I 'd rewritten the song , like , six times .
The bridge , as it is right now , used to be the chorus .
As the song got bigger and bigger , and more and more poppy , we all felt like the chorus seemed too mellow .
I 'd sort of been influenced by Erasure and Ace of Base when I wrote ` Closer , ' and that was sort of what I was trying to emulate : my favorite , mid - '90s dance tracks .
I felt ` Closer ' was more mellow than it needed to be , so we wound up co-writing . ''
Speaking with Spinner , Sara compared the song to Pop hits like `` Dancing in The Dark '' or `` Girls Just Want To Have Fun . ''
`` It 's silly and fun , '' she said , `` but if you stripped everything away , all the bells and whistles , at the heart of it is a really complex song and I like that kind of juxtaposition of pop music where I 'm having the time of my life , but when you start thinking about the lyrics , the song is really depressing - ` Dancing in the Dark ' is depressing ! ''
The song finds Tegan harking back to her teen romances .
She explained to Rolling Stone : `` Although I do imagine that this would be an okay song to make out to , all I intended was to write something sweet that reminded the listener of a time before sex , complicated relationships , drama and heart break .
In short , I was writing about my youth .
A time when we got closer by linking arms and walking down our school hallway or talked all night on the telephone about every thought or experience we 'd ever had .
It was n't necessarily even about hooking up or admitting your feelings back then . ''
`` In fact that rarely happened , '' she continued .
`` It was the anticipation of something maybe happening that was truly exciting and satisfying .
We were perpetually getting closer , yet we rarely got physical with one another , if ever .
These relationships existed in a state of sexual and physical ambiguity .
Is there anything more romantic than that ? ''
Tegan and Sara performed this song on the Christmas 2012 episode of the teen soap 90210 .
After writing an initial batch of songs and sending them to Sara , Tegan was challenged by her sister .
`` She told me to be brave and to write something that I 've never covered before , '' Tegan told Spinner .
`` And the only thing I 've never written about was love -- like real , happy love . ''
The result was this single .
