Allan co-wrote this driving song with Nashville singer-songwriter Sarah Buxton and his pal Odie Blackmon .
`` He 's one of my long time buddies , '' Allan said of the latter to The Boot .
`` When I first came to town , I would live on his couch .
So it 's always fun to have success with your friends . ''
Allan said that one of the best `` pieces '' he has taken is `` finding good in others . ''
He explained , `` It 's that whole no matter how bad or annoying a person is , there 's something good you can take from them .
I think that 's the biggest lesson I 've gotten from people . ''
The song 's music video was shot at the Nashville Speedway in one of the tunnels where the cars enter the raceway .
The photos you see flying by Allan and his band are actually childhood photos of the singer - `` pieces '' that made him into who he is today .
Regarding the meaning of `` Pieces , '' Allan explained : `` The song is about something I believe , which is how you take something , good or bad , from everyone you meet .
The song talks about all the pieces you take with you , whether you know someone for an hour or for a long time . ''
Gary Allan explained : '' ` Pieces , ' that was Sarah -LSB- Buxton -RSB- 's hook .
She came with a little bit of it written .
I wrote it with Odie Blackmon and her ... it was our first time we had written together , and it was a great write .
I love the song , though .
And it is a song about taking something from everybody , and you do .
You take things through life in every relationship , and that kind of spits you out as who you are . ''
Allan has a long history with Odie Blackmon but this was the first time they added Sarah Buxton to their writing partnership .
Blackmon told Roughstock : `` We thought bringing Sarah in on a write might be a fun thing to do .
She had a little piece of the verse and melody and the word ` pieces . '
We all started talking about it and what it meant to us .
None of us are young folks any more .
We 've all lived some life and we were talking about the pieces of our lives ... all the different pieces that has brought us to where we are today , whether they were good or bad pieces .
I do n't think in my early 20s I 'd known that . ''
`` Sarah started writing the melody on a piano , '' added Blackmon .
`` But it took on a different life with Gary and I playing guitar .
I was playing electric and Gary was playing acoustic .
When we went in to demo the song , it took on a different life with more of a tempo and groove thing to it .
I am so proud of the song and how everything fell into place . ''
