Canadian singer-songwriter Kathleen Edwards ' father is Leonard Edwards , a former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs .
Kathleen spent portions of her teenage years in Korea and Switzerland and her continuing nomadic experiences inspired the title of her fourth album , Voyageur .
She explained to UK newspaper The Sun : `` Despite my early determination to root myself somewhere , I 've found myself always in a new place .
And so much of my identity is where I 'm from .
I used to go on canoe trips every summer in Northern Ontario and we were called the Voyageurs .
It just hit me like a lightning bolt when the album was suddenly finished how much I still identify with that person .
And the life I live .
And longing to be home again . ''
Edwards co-produced Voyageur along with her boyfriend Justin Vernon , who is the mainman of Indie Rock band Bon Iver .
He also contributed backing vocals and various instrumentation to the record .
According to Vernon , his song `` Beth/Rest '' prophesized his relationship with Edwards before it happened .
Edwards wrote this song on the piano .
She told The Sun the story behind it : `` I continually had this image in my head of this forested area across the street from the house where my parents live .
As a child I would cross the street and play in the forest .
There was a stretch of pine trees that had grown tall and were untouched and protected by the elements and so all the needles that would fall lay on the forest floor .
When you walked through the trees , your feet would sink down like walking on a cloud .
So I wrote the chorus with this image , ` I 'm looking for/A soft place to land/the forest floor/the palms of your hands . ' ''
Edwards and co-writer John Roderick won the 2012 SOCAN -LRB- Society of Composers , Authors and Music Publishers of Canada -RRB- ECHO Songwriting Prize for this song .
The prize was awarded after a total of nearly 17,000 public votes were cast for the five nominated songs , which had been determined by a panel of Canadian music experts .
Said 2012 ECHO panelist Brad Wheeler : `` Edwards ' ' A Soft Place to Land ' is a victory of transcendent emotion and grace , an affecting , clear and memorable waltz-time appeal .
As such , ECHO is represented perfectly . ''
