This is the title track of the eighth studio album from the industrial metal band Fear Factory .
According to guitarist Dino Cazares , the title was taken from a documentary the band saw about the people who developed `` the engines for war machines . ''
The LP was released on June 5 , 2012 .
The Industrialist is a conceptual record based around a story written by vocalist Burton C. Bell .
`` The protagonist -LRB- The Industrialist -RRB- is the incarnation of all industries in the form of an automaton , '' noted the singer .
`` The mechanical , technological , and scientific advances through the industrial age led to the creation of The Industrialist .
In the story , the automaton becomes sentient as it collects memories with each passing day .
Through observation and learning , it gains the will to exist .
What was meant to help man , will eventually be man 's demise .
`` In our interview with Dino Cazares , the guitarist added : `` In the past , we 've always talked about man versus machine .
Well , on this record we decided to talk about the perspective of the machine , what he feels , what he thinks , and what he 's going through .
We call him ` the Automaton , ' for lack of better words , a robot .
Terminator-looking guy .
But it 's in human skin and looks very human , feels very human .
And it does n't know that it is an automaton .
Does n't realize that until he figures it out and goes in search for other people who are of his kind , and what he finds out is that he has a certain shelf life .
In other words , they run on batteries and their battery is going to die within a few years .
So he wants to find his creator and hopes that he extends his life .
Because this thing thinks it 's human .
It thinks like a human , it feels like a human , and mentally it has memories that have been implanted in his head.But as he lives , he sees .
And what he sees and what he learns , it 's stored in his memory banks .
So he makes them more sentient , which makes him think like a human . ''
The song 's music video was directed and edited by James Zahn .
The clip utilizes live footage of the band from June 2012 's Graspop Metal Meeting in Dessel , Belgium against a visual backdrop that pulls topical subjects from the album 's storyline .
Los Angeles designer Anthony Clarkson created the record 's artwork .
Clarkson is best known for his ghostly surrealist paintings and he also did the cover art for German power metal band Blind Guardian 's album , A Twist In The Myth .
Dino Cazares tells us that this is his favorite song on the album , calling it the biggest and most epic song in the set .
`` It 's got all the elements of Fear Factory , '' he said .
`` It starts out big and it goes into the syncopated double bass , kick drums pattern , syncopated with the guitars .
And it just sounds like the big machine roll-along . ''
