`` Jane '' has lyrics written by David Freiberg and Jim McPherson , and music by Freiberg , McPherson , Paul Kantner and Craig Chaquico .
All but McPherson were members of Jefferson Starship at the time ; McPherson was a professional singer-songwriter .
This is n't an easy point to pin down , since Jefferson Starship is one of those groups which completely rebuilds its lineup with the change of the seasons.Just how vast is Jefferson Starship lineup history ?
Did you know that both Jerry Garcia , David Crosby , and Graham Nash were all members in 1970 ?
That 's the year of the album Blows Against the Empire .
Let 's review the 3 variations of this band : Jefferson Airplane : Highly influential San Francisco group who were hallmarks of the Hippie movement .
They had just two US Top-40 hits -LRB- `` White Rabbit '' and `` Somebody To Love '' -RRB- , but were one of the most famous bands of the '60s .
They were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1996 .
Jefferson Starship : A much more polished version of the Airplane , Grace Slick summed it up in a 1981 interview with Creem , when she said , `` When I think about the Starship of the late '70s , I just remember what a mess it was .
We had four platinum albums in a row , but there 's nothing fulfilling about selling records that bore you to play .
Music is very emotional , so how you feel really affects how you perform .
If an accountant has problems , he can still come into work , add two and two , and it still comes out four .
Musicians ca n't do that .
Confusion , feeling down ... it 'll come out in the music . ''
-LRB- Get this whole interview at Rock 's Backpages . -RRB-
Starship : With everyone from Aretha Franklin to ZZ Top tweaking their sound to cash in on '80s success , Starship -LRB- they 're forced to drop the `` Jefferson '' when Paul Kantner leaves -RRB- , scores three # 1 hits with a radio-friendly sound that makes Airplane fans throw up a little in their mouths .
`` Jane '' was the first single released from the Freedom at Point Zero album .
The song has a polished sound that is far removed from the '60s version of the group , the very psychedelic Jefferson Airplane .
Boarding the Starship and heading into the future , Mickey Thomas , famous for singing on `` Fooled Around And Fell In Love , '' took over on lead vocals with the departure of Marty Balin and Grace Slick -LRB- who would return in February , 1981 -RRB- .
The album was produced by Ron Nevison , who was known for his work with Led Zeppelin and Bad Company .
It marked the first time Jefferson Airplane/Starship brought in an outside producer.So , who is `` Jane '' ?
The best we can tell , she 's a fictional creation with a name that scans well into lyrics like `` you 're playing a game , '' which helps show off the vocal range of Mickey Thomas .
And who ca n't relate to a girl that just does n't understand what 's best for her when it comes to love ?
