This song counts as Buffalo Springfield 's first single and the big breakout of both Stephen Stills and Neil Young - although it almost was n't .
Originally it had `` Go and Say Goodbye '' by Stephen Stills on the A-side and Young 's `` Nowadays Clancy Ca n't Even Sing '' on the B-side , before their producers caved to pressure from distributors and flipped the sides.Thus , from their very debut , Stills and Young were set up for rivalry .
Stills had already gotten to think of Buffalo Springfield as his band , and here he was getting upstaged by his lead guitarist !
So instead , Richie Furay sings the lead .
Furay had songs he wanted included on the album , but he got lost in the power struggle between Stills and Young.Further stress on the band 's debut was brought about by frustration with their producers .
Though the legendary Ahmet Ertegun was their mentor , they 'd been hooked up through the management team of Charlie Greene and Brian Stone , who were clearly out of their depth .
Greene and Stone named themselves Buffalo Springfield 's producers and had them signed not to Atlantic proper or even their subsidiary Atco , but to their own York/Pala Records label , giving them a bigger slice of the profit pie than they otherwise would have been entitled to .
As drummer Bruce Palmer is quoted in Neil Young : Long May You Run : The Illustrated History , `` They were the sleaziest , most underhanded , backstabbing motherf *** ers in the business !
They were the best !
`` Also from the above-mentioned book , `` What hurt the album more than anything , though , was Greene and Stone 's production .
Despite the Springfield 's strength as a live act , the managers forced each musician to record separately , piecing the parts together .
Worse , after the band participated in the mono mix , Greene and Stone quickly converted the album to stereo , resulting in a tinny mix that outrages the group to this day .
Young commented that Greene and Stone made them sound like the All-Insect Orchestra . ''
