This is the second single from Coldplay 's fifth album Mylo Xyloto .
The single was shipped to radio on September 12 , 2011 and debuted that day at 7:50 am on BBC Radio 1 's Chris Moyles Show .
The song finds Martin taking a narrator role , which he told Billboard was influenced by listening to Bruce Springsteen and Bob Dylan .
Regarding this song 's meaning , it is easier to explain in the context of the album .
Martin told MTV News Mylo Xyloto is a story , explaining : `` It 's supposed to be about two people who grow up separately in a very big oppressive city , and they each are a bit lost in their lives . ''
He added that the pair meet in a gang and fall in and out of love before getting back together at the end .
The singer went on to say : `` Paradise is about a girl really , the female half of the album , just about being a bit lost in the world and escaping through fantasy . ''
Drummer Will Champion revealed to MTV News that Mylo Xyloto was originally intended to be an acoustic album , but the band 's plans disintegrated after writing this song .
He explained : `` Very early on in the process of recording this record , we were playing a lot of acoustic instruments and we had it in our mind that we might try to record a small-sounding , intimate , reflective record .
And then ` Paradise ' came about , and it dawned on us that we could n't play it in that acoustic style .
So we thought , ` OK , we 'll finish this one and then we 'll do another record , ' and the realization came very quickly that we ca n't really focus on more than one thing at once .
`` Some of the songs from their acoustic project survived such as `` Us Against The World . ''
Also `` Charlie Brown '' was originally in that format .
The song topped the singles chart in several countries including Brazil , Norway , Portugal and the UK .
`` Paradise '' landed at pole position in the UK in its 10th week on the chart , the longest climb to # 1 since Lady Gaga 's `` Poker Face '' had a similar ten week ascent in 2009 .
The song finds Martin singing of a young girl 's dashed hopes and dreams of paradise .
The Coldplay frontman told Billboard magazine that Mylo Xyloto is a concept album , which is , `` loosely a kind of romance in an oppressive environment . ''
This song appears be some sort of sequel to the previous single , `` Every Teardrop Is a Waterfall , '' whose title is even included in `` Paradise '' 's lyrics .
So what does the strange album title mean ?
Chris Martin explained to Music Week : `` It means whatever you want it to mean .
-LSB- To me -RSB- it means a freedom of expression and you can think up new words if you want to .
There 's still things that you can invent and words beginning with X are few and far between so we thought we might try and add one . ''
The music video was directed by longtime collaborator Mat Whitecross and was shot on location in London , Cape Town , and the Klein Karoo in the Western Cape and Johannesburg .
We believe it is the first ever visual to feature a lead singer , in this instance Chris Martin , dressed as an elephant riding a unicycle .
When asked by Q magazine how he learnt to ride a unicycle so well for the video , Martin replied deadpan : `` We did n't get bicycles in Devon until 1996 , so we had to make do with what we could . ''
According to The Daily Mail , the song was inspired by the everyday childhood disappointments experienced by Chris Martin 's then eight-year-old daughter , Apple .
