This anthem to suburban romance sees vocalist and lyricist Brett Anderson desperate to convince himself that there 's an escape from council estate gloom .
He recalled to Q magazine April 2011 : `` I had this schoolboy-ish idea to sneak an overtly sexual song with the framework of pop .
I was amazed it got daytime radio play , considering the title is a play on amyl nitrite .
To me , it 's set in suburbia , in a council estate in Haywards Heath .
I was brought up as a white , working-class English boy , and that 's what I wrote about .
If you 're born in a dump you aspire to something better . ''
The song was originally called `` Dixon . ''
Anderson explained to Q magazine : `` The working title was Dixon , because we all thought it sounded like the theme from -LRB- BBC TV series -RRB- Dixon Of Dock Green .
I think Bernard -LRB- Butler -RRB- wrote the music for this quite early on but I could n't crack a really good vocal melody or lyric , so I sat on it for a while . ''
Brett Anderson explained the story behind the song to NME May 11 , 2013 : `` The idea for ` Animal Nitrate ' came when I was going through a period when drugs were taking the place of people .
Sex was just a hollow , vacuous thing which was made full and three-dimensional by the fact that I was taking a huge amount of drugs .
It was n't actually anything to do with amyl nitrate , it was other sorts of drugs - coke , ecstasy .
My mind was in a stormy period , I was going quite insane .
`` It definitely has a veneer -LRB- of gay sex -RRB- but there 's a very sad undertone , '' he added .
`` People think about gay sex and never really think about it romantically .
They see sadness , romance and loss as purely a hetrosexual thing .
There 's a definite domestic violence feel to ` Animal Nitrate . '
But behind that there 's a real sadness . ''
Amyl nitrite is employed medically to treat heart diseases such as angina and also to treat cyanide poisoning .
It is also used as an inhalant drug that induces a brief euphoric state , and when combined with other intoxicant stimulant drugs such as cocaine or ecstasy , the euphoric state intensifies and is prolonged .
However , its use as a recreational drug is risky as once its effects have worn off , a common side effect is a period of depression or anxiety .
Pedro Romhanyi directed the video , which caused some controversy when it was banned for its depiction of two men engaging in a kiss .
