Ella Yelich-O'Connor is a New Zealand singer-songwriter .
Inspired by her love for such royals as Marie Antoinette , Louis XVI of France , and the last Tsar , Nicholas II of Russia , she adopted the moniker of Lorde -LRB- The ` e ' is pronounced silently -RRB- .
Yelich-O'Connor was discovered when her now manager , Scott Maclachlan , saw a video of her performing at a Belmont Intermediate School talent show when she was 12 .
In development with Universal Music NZ since she turned 13 , the young singer signed to the US-based Lava Records three years later .
This is her first single , which debuted at # 1 on the New Zealand Top 40 on March 15 , 2013 and stayed there for three weeks .
Yelich-O'Connor was just 16-years-old at the time .
The song debuted at Billboard 's Alternative Songs at # 30 .
It was the highest entry for a solo female making her first visit to the airplay chart as a lead artist since M.I.A. 's `` Paper Planes '' arrived at # 28 in 2008 .
The song later climbed to # 1 on Alternative Songs making Lorde the first solo female to top that particular chart in 17 years .
The last solo female to lead the tally was Tracy Bonham , whose `` Mother , Mother '' topped the charts on June 8 , 1996 .
That was five months before Lorde was even born .
Yelich-O'Connor wrote the lyrics to this takedown of the luxurious lifestyle that Hip-Hop artists rap about in just half an hour .
She told the NZ Listener , `` When I wrote Royals , I was listening to a lot of rap , but also a lot of Lana Del Rey , because she 's obviously really hip-hop influenced , but all those references to expensive alcohol , beautiful clothes and beautiful cars - I was thinking , ` This is so opulent , but it 's also bulls -- t. ' '' This song topped Hot 100 .
On being told news of her coronation by Billboard magazine , Yelich-O'Connor commented : `` It feels like a combination of my birthday , Christmas and washing my hair after a month of not doing so . ''
The numerous Royal-ties arising from this chart-topping satire of material excesses resulted in an ironic situation for Lorde due to the potential riches that might become available .
`` I get the irony of ` Royals ' and royalties , '' she told Interview magazine .
`` But I ca n't pull any money out of my bank account unless my dad okays it , so I think I 'll be all right . ''
The song was used in a global commercial for Samsung 's Galaxy Gear smartphone , where it was sung by young children in the streets of Barcelona .
The ad agency 's music supervisor Gabe McDonough told Billboard magazine : '' -LSB- The creative directors -RSB- had a concept to use an old showtune , but as we were looking , I was like , ` Wait a minute .
There 's a new tune that 's perfect . ' ''
This was named the Best Song of 2013 by MTV News .
MTV said : `` She may never be ` royal , ' but Lorde 's chart-topping single will forever be enthroned in the collective cerebral cortex of the world . ''
This won for Song Of The Year at the Grammy Awards in 2014 .
`` This is the one thing I did not expect most out of tonight , '' Lorde said in accepting the award .
She also took the award for Best Pop Solo Performance for the song , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album and Record Of The Year .
Lorde also performed the song at the ceremony .
Yelich-O'Connor 's management paired her with other local songwriters , none of whom worked out very well until she met Joel Little of the Pop-Punk group Goodnight Nurse .
The teenage songstress told the New Zealand Herald that unlike the other would-collaborators , whom she felt did n't take her seriously because of her age and wanted to do all the work , she enjoys writing with Little because `` he does n't want to put his huge big signature on the music . ''
They penned this underdog song with a similar regal theme to Yelich-O'Connor 's stage name during her school holidays .
This came out of Yelich-O'Connor listening to the Kanye West and Jay-Z project Watch the Throne , as well as Lana Del Rey 's debut album , Born To Die .
`` What really got me , '' she told The Observer , `` is this ridiculous , unrelatable , unattainable opulence that runs throughout .
Lana Del Rey is always singing about being in the Hamptons or driving her Bugatti Veyron or whatever , and at the time , me and my friends were at some house party worrying how to get home because we could n't afford a cab .
This is our reality ! ''
-LRB- laughs -RRB- .
`` If I write songs about anything else then I 'm not writing anything that 's real . ''
Yelich-O'Connor recalled writing this song to Billboard magazine : `` I was just at my house , and I wrote it before I went to the studio , '' she said .
`` I wrote it in like half an hour - the lyrics , anyway .
I wrote all the lyrics and took them to the studio and my producer -LSB- Joel Little -RSB- was like , ` Yeah , this is cool . '
We worked on that and on two other songs on the EP in a week , and just did a little bit every day . ''
Lorde was the youngest artist to top the US charts since Tiffany -LRB- who was also 16 -RRB- reached the summit with `` I Think We 're Alone Now '' in 1987 .
She was also the first New Zealand act to achieve a Billboard Hot 100 # 1 as lead artist -LRB- fellow Kiwi Kimbra was featured on Gotye 's `` Somebody That I Used To Know '' in 2012 -RRB- .
Lorde became the youngest solo artist to write and perform a Hot 100 chart-topper when this reached # 1 -LRB- she was 16 years and 11 months when `` Royals '' climbed to # 1 -RRB- .
The record was previously held by Soulja Boy Tell 'em , who had just turned 17 when his self-written and produced `` Crank That -LRB- Soulja Boy -RRB- '' reached the summit .
However , as Yelich-O'Connor did n't produce the song , -LRB- Joel Little manned the boards -RRB- the American rapper remains the youngest act to write , perform and produce a US # 1 single .
Lorde revealed during an interview with VH1 that the song was inspired in part by a photograph she saw of baseball legend George Brett .
The Major League third baseman spent his entire 21-year baseball career playing for the Kansas City Royals , leading them to a World Series title in 1985 .
`` I had this image from the National Geographic of this dude signing baseballs , '' she said .
`` He was a baseball player and his shirt said ` Royals . '
And I was like ' I really love that word , ' because I 'm a big word fetishist , I 'll pick a word and I 'll pin an idea to that .
It was just that word and I was like ` This is really cool . ' ''
Lorde starting writing songs in her early teenage years , but one of the lyrics from `` Royals '' came from even a few years earlier .
`` I think one of the first lines I wrote from that song , '' she told Radio.com , '' ` We 're driving Cadillacs in our dreams ' was in a diary that I had when I was like 11 or 12 , so young . ''
