This song tells the story of two teenagers - `` people who others talk down to , '' as singer-songwriter and main ambassador of The Mountain Goats John Darnielle , has said .
They are expecting a child , and have little money and little prospects when they follow the curve of the highway into San Bernardino , California .
It is here that they pull off the road and check-in to a cheap motel , where the young woman gives birth to their son in a bathtub .
In many ways it is a sad scene , but this is not how Darnielle plays it .
The song is powered by carefully plucked guitar notes and the smooth , rising and falling of strings .
`` San Bernardino '' is not a sad song .
Darnielle has spoken at length about the song , telling Stereogum that he `` feels hope for them because they love each other ... their feeling for one another inspires me . ''
This sense of hope and love that permeates the song is returned to the couple that feels it , as everywhere they are welcomed into the reach of San Bernardino 's arms .
San Bernardino is a place of water , thus Darnielle 's representation of birth , hope and the presence of water as a conduit for these things is appropriate to the setting .
In addition , freeways are very much part of the geography of the city , as they cut across the skyline in typical southern California fashion .
The couple `` hit the highway '' having `` consulted maps from earlier days '' and the sun is rising over the mountains , indicative of a new day , a new world even , as they pass a sign that reads `` San Bernardino welcomes you . ''
Here , they feel at home in the world , despite that they have not had the best of what the world has to offer.The young man fills a bathtub full of water , and there the young woman gives birth as he tries to express to her just how much he loves her .
Darnielle said that as he was recording this song he `` lost his mind for five minutes '' and for several days could n't escape the gravity of the story he had created .
Everything from the soft , pensive quality of Darnielle 's voice to the tremulous guitar and smooth cello create the compelling voice and narrative for this track , of a man who has reached his last hope but is very much moved by the power of that singular hope .
It is in San Bernardino where the hope is realized , and the scenery embraces the two wayward travelers , right down to the final lines of the song as their newborn son cries , `` San Bernardino welcomes you , '' repeating the standout line of the first stanza .
`` These two , '' Darnielle wrote in Sound on the Sound , `` they 're going to be the future , so it 'd be awesome if we could give them enough leeway to become who they 're gon na become , and encourage them when we can .
I have a fondness for them though I barely know them .
`` The Mountain Goats have not revisited these characters , as Darnielle tends to do in his various song cycles , but `` San Bernardino '' perhaps is best when it stands on its own , never to be encumbered by the fate of these characters if their lives do not turn out as sunny as they appear this beautiful day in San Bernardino .
