This plucky acoustic jaunt finds the narrator , surrounded by happy couples , bemoaning his inability to find someone to love .
Hayes sings at the opening : `` I wish the couple on the corner would just get a room Seems like everyone around me is on their honeymoon I 'd love to take a pin to a heart-shaped balloon Everybody 's got somebody but me . ''
Hayes cut the song for his self-titled debut album .
When he decided to re-release the record two years later , he called on pop artist Jason Mraz to accompany him .
Zuffinetti recalled to Billboard magazine that after they 'd completed writing the song , Brainard and her thought it sounded so much like a Mraz tune that they thought Hayes would never be able to do anything with it .
`` The day we wrote it , Hunter left and I turned to Dave and was like , ` Well , we 're not gon na get that cut .
It sounds too much like Jason Mraz , ' '' she remembered `` Here we are now , and Hunter cut it with Jason !
I could n't even believe it .
Too weird . ''
This was n't Mraz 's first collaboration with a country artist .
He also co-wrote the Zac Brown Band 's single `` Jump Right In . ''
Hunter Hayes penned the song with producer Dave Brainard -LRB- Jerrod Niemann , Brandy Clark -RRB- and Jennifer Zuffinetti -LRB- Florida Georgia 's Line 's `` Country In My Soul '' -RRB- .
He recalled walking into their songwriting session with some lyrics about feeling isolated in a world of couples after a recent dating experience had left him feeling rather melancholy .
`` I found myself hanging out with this person and yet not hanging out with this person , '' remembered Hayes .
`` I went to this party or something , and most of the night I felt kind of invisible .
I did n't know anybody there , I felt really out of place .
I 'm naturally awkward anyway , so it did n't really help .
I remember how alone I felt .
It made me sort of miss other -LSB- dating -RSB- scenarios in the past where that was n't the case . ''
Hayes ' collaboration with Mraz was born from a meeting at an event hosted by the Grammys ' charitable arm MusiCares .
`` I met Hunter at the MusiCares dinner about a year ago , '' Mraz told Radio.com .
`` We talked about collaborating , he emailed me a song he was in the process of working on , I lent my two cents , all by email .
Then a couple of months later , we found ourselves appearing on each other 's stages , because we had a reason .
Then it flowed from that session to more jam sessions . ''
