`` Pusherman '' was first released on the soundtrack of the 1972 Blaxploitation film , Super Fly .
Curtis Mayfield wrote and produced all the songs on the soundtrack , which went on to be one of the few movie soundtracks to out-gross its associated film .
With a pair of million-selling singles , `` Freddie 's Dead '' and `` Superfly , '' Curtis Mayfield struck gold in 1972 for the album and in 1973 for the title track .
Super Fly , was one of many albums that Mayfield produced on his own record label , Curtom .
Curtom was founded by Mayfield and his manager , Eddie Thomas , in 1968 and was one of the first record labels to be owned by an African-American recording artist .
Mayfield acquired an old RCA studios building in Chicago , Illinois for use in cutting demos .
Most of the album was recorded in this tiny studio .
Curtis Mayfield used each song on the album , Super Fly , to demonstrate a different aspect of the problems he noticed were plaguing inner-city America .
`` Pusherman , '' the second track , uses the metaphor of drug dealing .
We see the Pusherman -LRB- the drug dealer -RRB- as a businessman , trying to make a living and a better life for himself in the tough situation .
The Pusherman is both good and evil .
Mayfield sings , `` Ai n't I clean , bad machine , super cool , super mean , '' to show the man 's tough exterior , but he implies that the Pusherman is just as much a victim as he is a villain with , `` A man of odd circumstance , a victim of ghetto demands . ''
The Curtis Mayfield Experience , made up of Mayfield and his backing band , appeared briefly in the film , Super Fly , performing `` Pusherman '' on a club stage .
`` Pusherman '' was recorded at Bell Sound Studios in New York City while the band was on location to make their cameo appearance .
It was the only song to be recorded outside of Chicago , and the only song on the album not to feature Morris Jennings on the drums -LRB- Tyrone McCullen stepped in for the absent Jennings -RRB- .
Also , `` Pusherman '' was the only track on the album to be recorded without arranger , Johnny Pate , and a full backing orchestra .
