Crash Kings is an American rock three-piece formed in Los Angeles , California in 2006 .
The band comprises vocalist-keyboardist Tony Beliveau , his brother bassist Mike Beliveau , and drummer Jason Morris .
This is the first single from the trio 's self-titled debut album , which was released May 26 , 2009 .
Tony Beliveau plays a clavinet with a whammy bar on several of the tracks on Crash Kings including this one .
His brother Mike told popwreckoning how they ended up using the unusual instrument : `` It 's kind of a , well the instrument found us in a lucky moment .
Tony was going to borrow a keyboard from a friend and ended up with this great keyboard because they could n't find the original one that they were looking for , so he brought this back to the studio and was like , ` Hey , Mike .
You have to come check this thing out .
It 's crazy .
It has a whammy bar . '
It 's a pretty rare thing .
So we got to the studio and were both like , ` Woah . '
The ideas for the instrument started forming ; we can distort this thing or make it sound like guitar .
Basically what it is , it 's an electric guitar in a keyboard format .
It has guitar strings and the whammy bar is a classic element of a guitar , so we thought it would work great in a rock band .
That 's how that instrument came to be in our band .
Tony Beliveau explained the song 's meaning to TheyWillRockYou.com : `` It was July 4th of July weekend and I was on a 3 day solo trek out at Yosemite , Hetch Hetchy to be exact , and I remember sitting on top of a mountain , looking out into the sun and the clouds .
I had this really strong feeling of security , peace , and overall serenity .
I remember thinking , ` this is where I want to be when I die ' .
When I came home , I wrote ` Mountain Man ' as an overall reflection of that weekend .
It 's about savoring the best moments , separating yourself from the masses to discover your personal identity , and of course some drunk girl , who has n't quite figured out what this song really means yet . ''
