This romantic ballad is the second single by the American Country music singer Hunter Hayes , from his self-titled debut studio album .
Hayes penned the song with Louisiana native Troy Verges , whose other credits include Carrie Underwood 's single `` Wasted '' and the Oscar nominated song performed by Gwyneth Paltrow in Country Strong , `` Coming Home . ''
Just how many instruments does Hayes play on his debut album ?
`` On the record , '' he told Billboard magazine , `` we counted 30 .
I learned a lot of stuff on the spot .
I do n't consider myself to be a professional on all of them , but it 's that process that I took when I was young , and doing all the demos by myself .
It all took on a new meaning when we started this record , and I just kept with it .
I 'm really glad we did .
It allowed a lot of myself to come out on the record . ''
Hayes told The Boot : `` The song has given me a false sense of confidence .
I 'm so awkward and weird and shy and quiet .
I do n't say these things very well - that 's why I put them in a song .
I 'm learning that I should write more songs for girls , because apparently that 's way better than me talking ! ''
Hunter admitted to Radio.com that he is n't exactly sure how `` the song happened , as he just spoke the words `` into outer space and we just typed everything we could think of . ''
Later , as he sat at the piano as the rest of the lyrics fell into place .
`` It was something I really wanted to say and I was trying to figure out the best way to say it , '' he said .
Hayes wrote or co-wrote every track on the album and he played every instrument .
Speaking about his complete hands-on approach to the record to The Boot , the young singer-songwriter said : `` It allows me to take a little more control over it and reinterpret the songs , tweak it , fix it ... We had this great idea of , let 's go into the studio and try it .
We did .
I was nervous , because working with -LSB- producer -RSB- Dann Huff , he 's one of my heroes .
I 've done the process but not quite to that extent , and going into the studio with him , he made it easy . ''
The song became Hayes ' first Country # 1 the week after he celebrated his 21st birthday .
In doing so the singer made history as the youngest solo male act to reach the summit , surpassing a record set in 1973 by Johnny Rodriguez when he topped the tally with `` You Always Come Back to Hurting Me '' aged 21 years , three months and three weeks.Several females have been younger when they first achieved the feat , including Taylor Swift , whose `` Our Song '' was her first chart topper at the age of 18 years and two weeks .
Hayes explained to Radio.com the story of the song . ''
` Wanted ' is very much a love letter .
It was written basically just to tell a girl how I felt about her , '' he explained .
`` It did n't actually work but I 'm okay with that .
I got my single , I got my song and I 'm okay with that . ''
`` I went in to write this song and I was definitely just desperately trying to get the point across to this girl , '' he added .
`` Those are the songs that really write themselves very quickly .
I did n't spend a whole lot of time thinking about this one or over-thinking it . ''
Troy Verges recalled to Roughstock that this was the fourth or fifth time that the pair had written together .
`` We had met when he first got signed to Universal Publishing , '' he explained .
`` I am from Louisiana and Hunter is from Louisiana .
Cindy Foreman up there was like , ` You guys need to meet and see if you gel ! '
So we started writing a few songs .
I have a giant grand piano in my studio .
I am a mediocre piano player , so I love it when people come over who can play it .
Hunter jumped up on the piano and just started playing the lick that is the intro of ` Wanted . ' ''
The song proved very easy to write and came really fast , but there was one hiccup .
`` There 's one line in the song , '' he said , ` like everything that 's green girl , I need you . '
That was Hunter 's line .
I was like , ' I do n't know what that means ... I 'm not sure that should go in there . '
He really fought for it , and now it 's like a lot of peoples favorite part of the song . ''
