This was the second single released from Dangerous .
The song was written and composed by Teddy Riley , Michael Jackson and Bernard Belle .
It was an attempt at connecting the smooth New Jack Swing sound that Riley was renowned for , with Jackson 's more earthy R&B .
The expensive video set in ancient Egypt was directed by John singleton and starred Eddie Murphy , Magic Johnson , and the Somali fashion model Iman , who married David Bowie in 1992 .
In the video , Iman plays the object of desire , and while Jackson had leading ladies in previous videos , including `` Thriller '' and `` The Way You Make Me Feel , '' this was the first time he shared a kiss on screen .
Jackson always seemed a bit reluctant to kiss in public , and at the 1994 MTV Video Music Awards he tried to placate fans by very publicly kissing his new bride , Lisa Marie Presley .
Riley and Jackson produced this track .
Riley recalled to Musicradar.com that Jackson 's vocal deliverance on this song `` really blew me away . ''
He added : `` I came to the project with this track .
That was the sound I was thinking of for this album .
Basically it was the sound I wanted on Dangerous and he loved it -- loved it from the beginning .
I 'd describe that sound as , really , like the New Jack Swing sound .
The elements on this song that give it that New Jack Swing sound are the ones that I used when I recorded with Guy and Bobby Brown to pioneer it .
Sort of like the twisted samples I brought in .
There were no samples of other people on that ; what I did was make the sounds myself -- I was sampling myself .
I 'd just jam with a riff and think , ` That 's a cool bit there ... ' Yeah , it kinda really brought a lot to the production side .
It worked . ''
This won the 1993 Soul Train Award for Best Male R&B Single .
Jackson , who was laid up with a severely twisted ankle , gave a memorable performance of the song at the award show in a chair .
2009 American Idol winner Kris Allen brought this song back to the forefront when he performed it on the show 's Michael Jackson week , earning solid reviews from the judges .
