This is a track from Blown Away , the fourth studio album from American country singer Carrie Underwood .
Working again with producer Mark Bright , the songstress co-wrote eight of the album 's 14 songs , including the lead single `` Good Girl '' and this dark tale of a scorned woman turning to murder .
She told Glamour magazine that though her lyrics are darker than ever , it does n't mean that she is a violent femme herself .
`` It would n't be a Carrie Underwood album without a revenge song on it , '' said the country sweetheart .
`` People really like when I do that .
I do n't mean to .
I do n't hate men that much .
But it turns out so well ! ''
Underwood shared with Billboard magazine that when she goes into a writing session , she sometimes adopts a character , who does n't reflect the contentment in her real life situation .
`` My life is wonderful , '' she said .
`` I do n't want people to try and draw any parallels with those songs and my life because my life is wonderful .
I have a great husband and I 'm very , very happy at home and in my life .
My heart is very happy right now with everything in it .
It 's so much more fun to write about everything else .
I live the love story at home , I do n't want to live the love story at work . ''
The song 's music video was filmed on November 6 , 2012 and directed by P.R. Brown -LRB- Josh Thompson 's `` Comin ' Around , '' My Chemical Romance 's `` SING '' -RRB- .
The clip shows Underwood 's cheating boyfriend being killed after a high speed chase and was based loosely on Stephen King 's Christine , a novel and film about a car with a mind of its own .
`` I had this idea ... If the car did the killing - a la ` Christine , ' the Stephen King book - I just thought that would be a cool little twist to the story , '' Underwood explained in the behind-the-scenes video .
`` So I did reach out to ask if he might give his blessing , and I told him , ' I would never want to do this if you did n't sign off on it first . ' ''
The other two songwriters on this cut are Josh Kear and Hillary Lindsey , both of whom have contributed to award-winning singles recorded by Underwood .
In the case of Josh Kear , he co-wrote another revenge fantasy , the American Idol graduate 's 2007 CMA Song of the Year , `` Before He Cheats , '' whilst Lindsay co-penned `` Jesus , Take The Wheel , '' which won her a Grammy Award for Best Country Song .
Underwood performed the song on television for the first time on November 25 , 2012 at the 40th Anniversary American Music Awards .
Along with her song `` Blown Away , '' Underwood sang this at the Grammy Awards in 2013 wearing a white dress that became a screen when images were projected on it .
