Tori Amos ' twelfth album Night of Hunters was commissioned and released by classical label Deutsche Grammophon .
It is the American singer-songwriter 's her first collection created as a song cycle-a series of songs designed to be performed together and in sequence and was inspired by 400 years of classical music .
The collection tells of one life-changing night in the life of a woman who is nearing the end of a troubled relationship .
Amos explained to Billboard magazine how the label approached her to do a song cycle : '' -LSB- Deutsche Grammophon executive producer Dr. Alexander Buhr -RSB- said to me , ` We have this idea for you to do a 20th-century song cycle . '
I said , ` Why me ? '
-LSB- Buhr -RSB- said , ` Because I 've been studying your work for a long time , and I hear the classical influence , and you 're ready to take the next step and really embrace this world .
Variations on a theme are very much a part of our tradition in classical music , and we need 20th-century variations on our themes . '
And I said , ` If I get it really wrong , it 's bad on so many levels , I 'd rather poop on my Manolos in public than screw up Schubert . '
When you start using things from the masters , you have to approach it with a delicate ruthlessness .
Because if you 're intimidated by it , you should n't be doing it , and if you do n't understand why the structures are working , and build a sonic cathedral , you do n't take a song cycle on . ''
Amos ' 19-year-old niece , Kelsey Dobyns , sings the part of Fire Muse on this song , which is built around Italian Baroque composer Domenico Scarlatti 's `` Sonata in F minor K. 466 '' and a Gregorian chant .
An alternative instrumental version of the album was released on December 13 , 2011 titled Sin Palabras .
This new version strips away Amos ' vocals and instead places her playing , along with that of The Apollon Musagete Quartet and the Berlin Philharmonic clarinet soloist Andreas Ottensamer , at the forefront .
Amos named the female protagonist Tori .
Speaking to Spinner she explained how much the character is based on her : `` Well , you know , you walk a thin line as a writer .
What you write about , you have to emotionally understand it .
A lot of what the woman is going through in one night has taken me 20 years to go through , in some ways . ''
Said Tori Amos : `` One of the main themes explored on this album is the hunter and the hunted and how both exist within us . ''
