This song is from the American alternative rock band The Hold Steady 's fifth studio album , Heaven is Whenever .
The track pays tribute to suicide victim Matthew Fletcher , from the Oxford band Heavenly .
`` He was n't just the drummer/He was someone 's little brother , '' sings Craig Finn .
The lyrics also refer to American hardcore punk band H端sker D端 , a key influence for the Hold Steady .
The comment was made in an interview with Pitchfork that the band scaled down on the guitar solos on Heaven Is Whenever .
Guitarist Tad Kubler replied : `` Actually , there was a big guitar solo in ` We Can Get Together ' , and we still do it live , but I ended up taking it out of that song .
I felt like the recorded version , there was this really beautiful texturing with the guitar tracks and the piano and the vocals at the end , and I thought the solo seemed a little gratuitous .
I 've heard people say it 's a bigger guitar record , which is funny because I ended up playing a lot of piano on this record , and I ended up writing a lot on piano .
How it became a bigger guitar record I 'm not really sure .
Essentially , we 're a guitar band .
I think our previous two records the piano is mixed a little loudly , so maybe that 's why people got a little confused about that . ''
The album title comes from a line , `` Heaven is whenever we can get together . ''
Finn explained in publicity materials : `` I think it has to do with the way that love can help us rise above our modern struggles .
It also speaks to how I feel about our shows , the communal aspect of the audience and perform . ''
Finn told the story behind the song in an article he wrote for The Guardian May 27 , 2010 : `` It 's a song about how fans use songs to communicate with each other .
It 's about the way a couple , or prospective couple , can build their own little world sitting in front of a turntable , playing their favorite songs for each other .
It 's about how sometimes the songs we love can often say things so much better that we can .
It 's about how we can make these songs our own , injecting our own feelings and meanings into words and music played by someone we do n't know .
And Mathew Fletcher -- a young man I never knew -- was able to help frame my thoughts about some of what matters so much to me about rock 'n' roll music.Tad Kubler , the Hold Steady 's guitarist , had written and recorded the music for We Can Get Together .
I sat at my desk , listening to the melody , trying to come up with the words .
At the time , I was thinking a lot about the relationship between struggle and reward .
It is a concept that informed the majority of the new album .
I started thinking about heaven , which Christianity deems to be the ultimate reward .
I started riffing on the songs I knew that had heaven in their title , and before the evening was over , I had finished the lyrics.Some of the lyrics nod to some classic rock staples of my youth -LRB- Meatloaf , Todd Rundgren 's Utopia -RRB- .
Most of the other lyrics are insider winks at some of my favourite bands -LRB- H端sker D端 , Pavement , Psychedelic Furs -RRB- .
But at the heart of the matter is the band Heavenly .
In some ways , it was an odd choice , because Space Manatee remains the only thing by Heavenly I own : no matter that I was an obsessive record-buyer , I never became obsessed by Heavenly .
I never saw them live .
I never sought out their back catalogue .
I 'm not even sure I 've ever even heard Talulah Gosh , the band that gave rise to Heavenly , and who many indie pop enthusiasts consider legendary.When I started writing , though , Heavenly was a pretty logical thing to stumble over as I played with the word `` heaven '' .
It struck me as a perfect coincidence : I was trying to capture in words the fleeting euphoria some songs can offer us , and while Heavenly had brought me moments of joy , they had also slipped out of my memory to be placed with new bands , songs , moments of joy .
When I did an internet search on them , as I wrote , I was reminded of Mathew Fletcher .
His sister , Amelia , had been Heavenly 's singer and would form new bands , but Heavenly ended with Mathew 's death at the age of 25 .
I still spend time thinking about Mathew Fletcher , his sister , and their other bandmates spending time in a rehearsal space somewhere .
My version goes like this : Someone came up with the chords to Space Manatee .
Someone added the lyrics .
They probably took a break for a beer or cigarette break .
They made inside jokes with each other .
They came back and played the song even better .
They added it to their live set.At some point , they recorded the song and pressed up a single .
It made its way to KUOM in Minneapolis and got played on the radio .
I was driving .
I heard the song .
It felt great .
I bought the single .
It 's a simple story , but a moving story as well .
Mathew Fletcher and his band mates put their time , energy , and love into their art .
A distant world away , this effort brought me a small bit of euphoria .
This is the beauty of the relationship we have with music , the way it can bring small doses of joy into our lives . ''
