Phoenix close their fifth studio album Bankrupt !
with this song in which Thomas Mars laments the brand worship of international icons like Coca-Cola .
The vocalist told Radio.com that when it came to figuring out the tracklist , the band knew `` Entertainment '' would start the album , while this song would end the record since the two echo a notion of loneliness .
He went on to compare `` Oblique City '' to Voltaire 's prose romance Candide.Voltaire 's most famous work Candide found the French satirist heaping all manner of adversities upon the smiling eponymous hero , who stands up to them philosophically .
Candide was written at the time of the Lisbon earthquake , which killed 50,000 people , and it was intended to satirize philosophical optimism and to question the goodness of God .
Mars told Artist Direct regarding the song 's meaning , that he saw it , '' as a very candid sort of diary . ''
He explained ; `` There 's so much information that you sometimes feel disconnected .
It 's a few attempts to feel connected and find out if you 're the person who can connect or if it 's just some sort of way to protect yourself . ''
Mars told Artist Direct how this song was put together .
`` Somehow , we wanted the song to have a certain drive so all of the instruments would use the same pattern and you could n't necessarily tell them apart , '' he said .
`` Whether it 's the synths , drums , or guitars , they 're all under that same wall of sound , playing the same .
It took us a while to craft that so it sounds unique .
It feels like one big voice or instrument so you ca n't tell what it is .
That was the starting point .
`` Then , it became more of a journey , '' Mars continued .
`` We started put a few things here and there .
Towards the end , the very simple guitar is influenced by this Swedish movie , A Swedish Love Story .
It has an amazing soundtrack , and we pretty much stole it from there .
That was the one thing on the album we did n't really create .
It 's pretty simple and very minimal .
The song sounded so overwhelming that it needed a minimal part .
We knew it would be at the end of the record too so we wanted to finish on a minimal note .
It was important to us that after all of these epic-sounding songs you finish on something basic .
What 's you find in the end is not overwhelming .
It 's nature .
It 's not man-made .
It 's intimate .
When it 's big , it can feel distant .
It can take a while to create a relationship with it . ''
