Written by Bob Dylan and Band bassist Rick Danko , this was one of Dylan 's famous `` Basement Tapes '' songs , recorded in April , 1967 with the members of The Band in Big Pink -LRB- a house in upstate New York -RRB- after Dylan 's near-fatal motorcycle accident in 1966 .
Fourteen different Basement Tapes became available as Bootleg recordings , and `` This Wheel 's On Fire '' appeared on tapes labeled `` Great White Wonder '' and `` Little White Wonder . ''
-LRB- thanks , Joey - Athens , GA -RRB- Dylan 's original version is much slower than The Band version on Music From Big Pink .
When he recorded The Basement Tapes with The Band , many of the songs were covers of old Country or Blues tunes , and sometimes they jammed on different song ideas .
`` This Wheel 's On Fire '' was one of the few fully-formed songs they came up with .
Members of The Band credited Dylan with teaching them a great deal about songwriting during his time at Big Pink .
Many artists have covered this song , including Julie Driscoll , Brian Auger & The Trinity , whose version hit # 5 in the UK in 1968 .
The Byrds covered it in 1969 , and Siouxsie and the Banshees brought it back to the UK charts in 1987 , with a version that hit # 14 .
With so many cover versions , it was a very profitable song for the writers , and while Bob Dylan was used to large royalty payments , Rick Danko was not , and his check for about $ 200,000 was an astonishing amount of money .
Danko would later say , `` Those royalty checks almost killed some of us , '' referring to members of The Band who suddenly had easy access to drugs , alcohol , and a lifestyle of excess .
Richard Manuel , who killed himself in 1986 , was particularly prone to drinking and drug binges .
Band drummer Levon Helm 's autobiography is called This Wheel 's On Fire .
In the book , he explains that the basement tapes sessions had a very loose feel - they did n't mind some bad notes and had to play relatively quiet , since they were really in a basement and too much sound echoing off the wall could be annoying .
Helm adds that for this song , he was teaching himself to play the piano , and some of the music he wrote just seemed to fit with Dylan 's lyrics .
Like many songs Bob Dylan wrote , this one is open to interpretation .
The wheel on fire seems to be the singer anticipating death , and who he 's speaking to could be a friend , an enemy , or even God .
