This was written by the multitalented Shel Silverstein , who later wrote several hits for Dr. Hook , including `` Sylvia 's Mother '' and `` Cover Of The Rolling Stone . ''
Silverstein also wrote several popular children 's books .
He got the idea for the song from his friend Jean Shepherd - a guy who had to deal with a girly name .
Shepherd was a writer/humorist like Silverstein ; he narrated the 1983 movie A Christmas Story , which is based on his writings .
Cash recorded this live at San Quentin Prison in February , 1969 .
Silverstein 's nephew Mitch Myers tell the story : `` In those days in Nashville , and for all the people that would visit , the most fun that anyone really could have would be to go over to someone 's house and play music .
And they would do what one would call a ` Guitar Pull , ' where you grabbed a guitar and you played one of your new songs , then someone else next to you would grab it and do the same , and there were people like Johnny Cash or Joni Mitchell , people of that caliber in the room .
Shel sang his song ` Boy Named Sue , ' and Johnny 's wife June Carter thought it was a great song for Johnny Cash to perform .
And not too long after that they were headed off to San Quentin to record a record - Live At San Quentin - and June said , ` Why do n't you bring that Shel song with you . '
And so they brought the lyrics .
And when he was on stage he performed that song for the first time ever , he performed it live in front of that captive audience , in every sense of the word .
He had to read the lyrics off of the sheet of paper that was at the foot of the stage , and it was a hit .
And it was n't touched up , it was n't produced or simulated .
They just did it , and it stuck .
And it rang .
I would say that it would qualify in the realm of novelty , a novelty song .
Shel had a knack for the humorous and the kind of subversive lyrics .
But they also were so catchy that people could not resist them . ''
-LRB- Learn a lot more about Shel Silverstein in our interview with Mitch Myers . -RRB-
Johnny Cash performed this song in the East Room of the White House on April 17 , 1970 when he and his wife were invited by President Richard Nixon .
Nixon 's staff had requested the song along with Okie From Muskogee and a song by Guy Drake called `` Welfare Cadillac , '' but Cash refused to perform those songs , saying he did n't have arrangements ready .
This is about a boy who grows up angry at his father not only for leaving his family , but for naming him Sue .
When the boy grows up , he sees his father in a bar and gets in a fight with him .
After his father explains that he named him Sue to make sure he was tough , the son understands .
Shel Silverstein went on to write another song titled `` The Father of the Boy Named Sue . ''
It 's the same story , but from the father 's point of view .
-LRB- thanks , Bashu - Nanoose Bay , Canada -RRB-
