This song features Ciara 's Jive Records label mate Justin Timberlake , who also co-wrote and co-produced the track .
Rather than recording their vocals separately , the two stars recorded the track together in a studio .
Ciara told Ed Lover of Power 105.1 that beyond Timberlake 's musical gifts , she was also impressed by his personality .
She explained : `` He 's a comedian .
I think that all of us can agree -- at least if you 've been watching some of his stuff lately -- that he 's really becoming more and more silly ... His personality is amazing . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Diane Martel , who previously helmed Ciara 's promos for `` Like A Boy '' and `` Promise . ''
Ciara said of the promo to MTV News : `` It 's all about showing another side of me with this video .
I 'm basically giving you a show you 'd see in Vegas - and it 's my love , sex and magic show .
He 's the voyeur and I play with him a little bit .
I got my inspiration from the Crazy Horse -LSB- Cabaret -RSB- show and just from the shows -LSB- in Vegas -RSB- , period .
It 's giving you the elements of love and sex and magic . ''
This was the first song by a female artist to reach the Top 10 of the Hot 100 , which contained the word `` sex '' in the title .
Prior to this song , 12 other sex-titled numbers had reached the Top 10 , all by male artists or groups .
One of them was another Justin Timberlake song , `` SexyBack . ''
The song was originally created by Justin Timberlake as a demo track called `` Magic . ''
Timberlake told MTV News : `` I just kind of wanted to create a song for a female that was along the same lines as a male who could have swagga on an album .
She just fit the song so perfectly . ''
Ciara explained to Digital Spy how her collaboration with Timberlake came about : `` Well , Justin had some records that he wanted to play for me and I happened to want to work with him .
We 've got the same manager so everything came together easy .
It 's funny because we met each other years ago but never really hung out or anything .
But now he 's kinda my new music buddy and I 'll come to him with an idea and say , ` Hey , listen to this , what do you think ? ' ''
