Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix was the fourth studio album by French four-piece rock band Phoenix .
It was produced by Philippe Zdar , one half of French house duo Cassius .
Frontman Thomas Mars explained to The Independent June 5 , 2009 that the strong-willed Zdar was a good choice : `` He 's such a strong personality that there 's no in-between with him , '' he said .
`` We can only really work with someone who is going to tell us honestly what 's working and what is n't .
You ca n't play it to a friend , as they always say they like it .
We needed someone like him to stop us from wasting too much time in the studio . ''
Mars explained to the Washington DC free newspaper Express that the inspiration for this song came during a car journey .
He said : `` It was driving from Versailles off to Beirut where we went to finish the album .
We were driving in the car and we had this experience where the lights and sound were giving a rhythm to the song and road , and we wanted to create something that was both epic and almost hypnotic , but very minimalistic .
Our instruments are very hybrid ; the guitar -LSB- is -RSB- be very simplistic . ''
Mars told The Independent that this ambient epic was inspired by minimalist American composer Steve Reich 's 1970 work `` Drumming . ''
The band wanted to compose a 45-minute-long track , akin to Reich 's , but were discouraged from doing so by Zdar .
According to Q magazine , for Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix , the band initially took up residence in a New York hotel - in homage to Francois Truffaut who used to write his films in hotels - but found the environment uninspiring .
Next they rented the apartment of the 19th century painter Theodore Gericault , where the light was beautiful but the atmosphere not quite right .
Then they decanted to a houseboat below the Eiffel Tower , which was a disaster as they all were seasick.Finally the band , now broke , retired to the home studio of their friend , Philippe Zadar , which cost nothing to lose .
The sum total of music salvaged from the hotel , apartment and houseboat sessions was 10 seconds of this song .
