Let The Dominoes Fall was East Bay punk band Rancid 's seventh studio album .
Armstrong commented on the band 's MySpace site that when he hears this song , `` I think of my brother Greg sitting in the desert in unthinkable heat as darkness falls .
Thinking about how when he gets home he is going to sit there in the old house he grew up in and raise his kids , listen to AC/DC , drink his beer , baby his plants and grow old .
I feel the fear in a brave man as he sits there waiting not knowing what is going to happen next .
Greg told me once that the whole time he was in Iraq he was in that hypervigilent state , where you have eyes in the back of your head and know everything going on all the time .
A situation I ca n't even honestly imagine .
I feel like the song is also for me and other family members who have to watch the news every night and hear about the dead soldiers in a place we will never know but where our family 's blood may spill . ''
Bass guitarist Matt Freeman said : `` I play upright bass on it .
Originally meant for the acoustic record , when Mr. Brett -LRB- producer Brett Gurewitz -RRB- heard it he thought it belonged on the actual record . ''
Guitarist Tim Armstrong 's brother Greg , who served as a soldier in Iraq , inspired this mostly acoustic number .
Armstrong told The LA Timest : `` When we went into Iraq , our country was n't at war , 150,000 military families were .
It 's hard to talk about , so this is my way of telling my family that I love them .
When I played this song for my dad , he was in tears . ''
Armstrong added : `` My brother Greg has always supported me .
He was the first musician I ever played with when I was a teenager .
Greg joined the army and I stayed .
Music has always been a way for me to communicate with my family .
As a songwriter it 's my vehicle .
I wrote this song pretty quick , almost as if it wrote itself .
The idea came after hanging out with Greg on the front porch reminiscing like we 've done a thousand times before .
This song is inspired by his year in Iraq .
It 's less about the war and more about a person returning home . ''
