This is the first single from American folk rock band The Decemberists ' sixth album , The King Is Dead .
The song features R.E.M. guitarist Peter Buck , who contributes 12-string guitar and singer-songwriter Gillian Welch , who provides vocal harmonies .
Frontman Colin Meloy said to Rolling Stone of Buck 's participation : `` It was really cool .
Even playing those simple parts , he 's a master . ''
The song features a harmonica intro played by Meloy .
It was the first time the Decemberists frontman had picked up the instrument in years .
`` I thought it 'd be fun to try again , '' he told Spin magazine .
`` Adding a harmonica -- it has a rank-and-file sort of 80 's cow-punk thing to it .
That was a nice color to add . ''
The King is Dead found Meloy taking a simpler , more stripped-down songwriting approach compared with the band 's previous two records , The Hazards of Love and The Crane Wife .
`` For this record , I was just kind of letting the songs come naturally , '' Meloy told Billboard magazine .
`` It was my interest , having gone through a phase of feeling like each song could open up into another song , which made for these longer , multiple-part songs .
I think I 'm sort of over that for the time being .
I 'm just really enjoying kind of concise , 3-4 minute songs like I did in the early days of The Decemberists . ''
The King is Dead was The Decemberists ' first-ever # 1 album on the Billboard 200 .
The chart-topping record sold a career-high 94,000 sold in its first week .
The large sales figures were partly due to Amazon MP3 's offering of it on January 18 , 2011 as its $ 3.99 daily deal .
Even before Buck 's contribution , the song was heavily influenced by R.E.M. Frontman Colin Meloy told Rolling Stone it , `` started out as more of a paean to R.E.M. than I think any of us really wanted it to be .
`` The band played around with the song to make it sound a bit less like the Athens ' band 's 1984 album Reckoning before Buck joined the party .
The King is Dead was recorded in a barn near Pendarvis Farm on the outskirts of Portland , Oregon , where Meloy got married .
However , the reality proved far more difficult than what the band envisaged when planning the project .
Said Meloy during a session at New York 's WFUV Studio : `` It rained on us a lot .
It was a very rainy May , with no heat or indoor plumbing .
It was n't luxurious in any sense . ''
The band wanted The King is Dead to draw on the country-rock records of the 60s and 70s - hence Gillian Welch 's involvement on the record .
`` I felt that one of my favourite parts of those records was that often there would be a male and female voice , '' Meloy UK newspaper The Guardian .
`` Like Neil Young 's Comes a Time with Nicolette Larson , where they 're both really hot in the mix , so you can really hear the character of her voice .
And that 's coming from a tradition -- I think they were both really big fans of Gram Parsons and Emmylou Harris , and they in turn were drawing from Porter Wagoner and Dolly Parton , and they were drawing on George Jones and Tammy Wynette ... And that 's what I think we wanted to try to get .
But we needed somebody whose voice could stand up to my famous donkey bray . ''
Meloy added with a modest grin .
`` And Gillian 's voice has enough character to stick out . ''
