David Guetta is a French dance producer who is recognised as one of the world 's top DJs .
This song was the lead single from Guetta 's fourth studio album One Love .
Guetta said to Billboard of this ode to the excitement of being in love : `` The track with Kelly has made me experiment with a more American urban influence .
Musically , it 's opened a new world for me .
It 's pure pop with a lot of detail , and Kelly had this Whitney Houston vibe and nailed it . ''
A number of reviewers have commented on the piano riff 's similarity to Coldplay 's `` Clocks . ''
When this reached # 1 in the UK , Guetta became the first Frenchman to top the charts since Romain Tranchart and Yann Destagnol of Modjo did with `` Lady -LRB- Hear Me Tonight -RRB- '' in September 2000 .
The song topped the charts in a number of countries , including the UK , Ireland , Italy , Belgium , Switzerland , Slovakia , and Turkey , and on the European Hot 100 Singles .
In North America it became Guetta 's second Hot 100 hit , following `` Love Is Gone . ''
This features vocals by former Destiny 's Child member Kelly Rowland .
She first came across Guetta at one of the DJs techno shows in Cannes .
Rowland later met up with the Frenchman and during their conversation he played her a vocal version of this track .
The American singer told Billboard magazine that it moved her to tears .
She explained : `` I felt so much emotion from the track ; something happened the first time I heard it , and it was just beautiful . ''
Rowland agreed to take the song to London where she wrote and recorded some vocals .
Guetta commented in the video 's teaser , that its plot is similar to the song 's He explained : `` You see Kelly walking her path , her story and me on the other side . ''
A note-by-note remake of this song by Airi L appeared simultaneously in the UK Top 40 singles chart .
The appearance of Airi L 's version on the iTunes chart caused Guetta 's original to be rush released in the UK four days earlier than originally intended .
Guetta recalled to Billboard magazine : `` I met Kelly in a club and after I played the instrumental version of ` When Love Takes Over , ' she came to me with tears in her eyes .
She told me she wanted to sing on it , and I decided to go for it .
I was worried at that point because I thought a project with all these collaborators would be a nightmare to organize with the labels and lawyers , but it all came together very easily . ''
This won the Best Remixed Recording , Non-Classical prize at the 52nd Grammy Awards .
It was the first time Guetta had won a Grammy .
