Bobby Whitlock played keyboards at this session .
He was brought in for his skill on the organ , but ended up playing a different instrument on this .
Says Whitlock , `` Beware Of Darkness was the first time I ever played piano .
They needed a piano player for that , and I decided that 's what I 'm going to do .
That was my first recorded piano thing . ''
Some of the guys who played on this were members of Delaney And Bonnie 's band .
Whitlock explains how it came together : `` George went out for a couple of dates with us when we were on tour with Eric -LRB- Clapton -RRB- .
George , Paul and them had broken up .
I was friends with George when all this was happening .
He was playing me the songs he wanted to do on his record .
I spent a lot of time out there at Friar Park .
George plays me all this stuff .
He wanted to do his first record after The Beatles - he never got to do his own stuff , just one song on each album .
He wanted to know what Eric and I thought about putting a band together for his album .
Eric and I were already talking about it , and we had already talked about having Jim Keltner come over and be in our band .
Keltner was the original drummer , and Carl Radle .
They were out on tour , they were still doing Mad Dogs -LRB- Joe Cocker 's album -RRB- .
It turns out Jim Gordon and Carl come storming in from the Mad Dogs And Englishmen thing .
We started right in on the session .
I made a call , I called Carl Radle and Jim Keltner .
Keltner was on the road with Gabor Szabo , and Carl Radle was on the road with Leon -LRB- Russell -RRB- and them .
I talked to Keltner , and Keltner was going to come over when he got finished , but Jim Gordon got finished with that Mad Dogs thing and he stormed right on over and was in on it right away .
The availability was there for a drummer , and Jim Gordon seized the moment .
Keltner said Jim Gordon 's been taking some pretty important gigs from him in Derek and the Dominos and All Things Must Pass .
He was there and the need was immediate , so he filled the slot .
The Dominos were formed during the recording of All Things Must Pass .
Carl and Jim wound up coming out to Eric 's at Heartwood Edge and we stayed out there and rehearsed .
That got to be too much , so we got the Domino flat in town on 33 Turlough Street .
We got out of Eric 's place and the 3 of us were in downtown London raising all manner of hell and unrest . ''
-LRB- For more on the All Things Must Pass and the story of Derek and the Dominos , check out our Bobby Whitlock interview . -RRB-
