Texan Country artist Sunny Sweeney 's debut studio album , Heartbreaker 's Hall of Fame , was critically acclaimed but failed to impress radio , and none of the album 's three singles charted .
However , she achieved a break through with this leadoff single from her self-titled second album broke and it became her first record to enter the Hot 100 when it debuted at # 96 on the chart dated January 22 , 2011 .
This climbed into the Top 10 of the Country chart in its 39th week on the survey .
It marked the longest journey for any solo female artist 's first chart entry since the adoption of Nielsen BDS data on Country Songs in January 1990 .
The record was previously held by Kellie Coffey whose `` When You Lie Next to Me , '' reached the top tier in its 28th frame in June 2002 .
Sweeney said in a video filmed for The Boot that the inspiration for this song came from witnessing a woman in a restaurant distraught that her lover was also there with his wife .
`` I was eating one night in Nashville and saw this situation go down , '' she explained .
Sweeney wrote the song with Nashville songwriters Bob DiPiero and Karyn Rochelle .
The cut tells a tale of marital infidelity , in which the female narrator watches her love interest have a romantic dinner date with his wife in a restaurant , observing it all `` from a table away . ''
Bob DiPiero told the story of the song in an interview with The Boot : `` This song actually started two years ago at a BMI Awards dinner .
Sunny and I had been talking and talking about writing .
That night we talked about it again .
She gave me her number , and I gave her my number .
Karyn and I met with Sunny some time later.The song was written from the other woman 's perspective , and nobody 's setting somebody 's car on fire or gouging keys into a paint job ... it 's all emotions happening at that moment .
That 's what I love so much about this song -- it 's almost like a conversation .
And it 's country , in a day where a lot of female artists are not so country anymore .
I find that refreshing .
The song 's been on the charts coming up on a year , and it 's just the little song that could.Sunny is just the real thing .
She is Sunny Sweeney when she wakes up , and she is Sunny Sweeney when she goes to bed .
It 's not like she puts on a persona .
Her vocals and her writing style is that .
As a writer , it really makes it easy to find a place to go musically and lyrically .
I wish every writing session would go like the first Sunny Sweeney/Karyn Rochelle writing session .
Everything just flowed without struggle . ''
Sweeney explained the album title to Billboard magazine : `` I did n't want something like butterflies and dandelions , something real soft .
I wanted a strong word .
Then I started thinking , ` Concrete is actually used to build a foundation . '
All of this stuff in my past has built this foundation for me to have a much more positive future , so I just thought it was a cool , tough , simple title . ''
