This is the third single from Mayhem , the third studio album by Irish rockabilly singer Imelda May .
An alternative version was also recorded in New York with Velvet Underground icon Lou Reed .
May told Spinner UK that the version recorded with Lou Reed came about through producer Tony Visconti .
She recalled the recording with the Velvet Underground legend : `` I do n't know how it came about .
I just know Tony heard the album and came to us .
And it was n't some big , ` Let 's get somebody famous on the album , ' because the album was already made .
I caught a flight to New York for four hours to re-record ` Kentish Town Waltz . '
Tony Visconti played it to Lou Reed once and he said , ` Yeah , ' and then Tony did some fantastic string arrangements on it and then -LSB- Lou -RSB- came over.It was a very good day .
We got on well , eventually .
He can be very prickly !
And I had to tell him what to do .
I 'm a big fan of Lou Reed 's .
I was very respectful .
I said , ` Thank you for coming here , ' and then he kind of blankly said , ` Who did the strings on this ? '
Tony said , ' I did , ' and then he said , ` Who wrote this ? '
And I said I did .
And then he went ` Ooooooooh . '
Then we got on like a house on fire , so it changed things around .
Then I had to ask him to do stuff , because it was my song and , apart from that , I produce my own albums and needed to direct him what I wanted him to sing .
I would just shyly say , ` Could you just ... that line after there ... And ... ' And then he was just like , ` Suuuuure !
It 's your song .
I 'll do whatever you want ! '
And I was , like , ` Wow ! '
So we messed around and laughed around a bit .
Yeah , it was terrific . ''
Lyrically , the song is autobiographical and describes May 's experiences of living in the Kentish Town area in north London and the domestic struggles she endured with her husband , Darrel Higham , whilst residing there .
She recalled to The Sun : `` We were badly broke and the bailiffs were knocking on the door but we were mad about each other so got through it . ''
