This is the sixth track and first single from American heavy metal band Demon Hunter 's sixth album , True Defiance . ''
` Someone To Hate ' feels like a perfect first-glimpse at the new record , '' Demon Hunter frontman Ryan Clark said in a statement .
`` At one point we were even debating on it being the album opener .
It 's definitely a thrash song , but with a Demon Hunter twist .
I think fans will dig it because it has a lot of classic DH elements , but it really pushes each of those elements to the max .
It 's fast , it 's mean , it 's unapologetic ... but of course , it has moments of melody as well . ''
Clark explained the song 's meaning to AntiMusic : `` The lyrics to the song speak about the idea of being hated by those that oppose my world view , and how being someone to hate is n't something I 'll necessarily shy away from , if it 's for the things I believe in whole-heartedly .
In this scene , if you are n't making someone upset , you 're not saying much of anything . ''
Clark told AntiMusic about Patrick Judge 's guitar solo : `` When we were getting ready to record , I showed Patrick an At The Gates solo and said , ` Hear that ?
That little stutter effect ?
I want that in a solo ! '
I assumed it was a pedal effect , and Patrick said , ` No , that 's him tapping the whammy bar really fast . '
I was like , ` Seriously ? '
And he was right .
You can hear what I 'm referring to right in the middle of this solo .
It 's an awesome little detail . ''
`` Someone To Hate '' was the original title for `` Collapsing , '' the lead single from Demon Hunter 's previous album , The World Is A Thorn .
There is also an original version of this song with some of the final lyrics on it , where all the verses were screaming vocals , which was demoed around the same time .
After completing the record , the band returned to the studio to revise the demo .
Clark rewrote the verses and pre-chorus , and decided that he should do melodic singing vocals throughout the entire song .
When writing for True Defiance , Clark came back to the lyrics and title for this song as he still liked them and did n't want them to go to waste .
He told AntiMusic that he ended up `` rewriting the bulk of them , but the general idea is still there . ''
The line `` Heart is cold '' at the top of the chorus was a last minute addition .
Clark explained to AntiMusic : `` I felt that the vocals came in too late in the chorus , so a short line tagged onto the beginning was the perfect remedy . ''
The working title for the song 's demo was , `` Slay . ''
