In a radio interview around 1981 , Keith Richards said he wrote this song for his Dalmatian dog -LRB- female -RRB- .
Most people assumed he wrote it about Anita Pallenberg , the mother of his two kids .
He ended his tumultuous relationship with her after a 17-year-old boy shot himself on their bed.For those wondering about a source for the Dalmatian story , the book Old gods almost dead : the 40-year odyssey of the Rolling Stones does cite a Keith Richards interview where Keith did say that the song is about his `` constantly farting Dalmatian . ''
However , lyrics like `` Tell me those lies , let me think they 're true '' and `` So how come I 'm still in love with you ? ''
cast some doubt on this claim .
There was a great deal of controversy about the song and Anita Pallenberg 's feelings in the matter , so Keith might have been trying to save face at this point.There was a lot more to Anita Pallenberg than just a dead 17-year-old ; Pallenberg was already an actress and model before she met Keith Richards .
She was even part of Andy Warhol 's Factory in New York , which sets the stage for scandalous behavior right there .
Furthermore , she apparently dated Stones ' guitarist Brian Jones prior to Richards , and in Richards ' biography Life , he says that she also had a fling with Stones ' frontman Mick Jagger .
But the consensus is that she had a good role as a Rolling Stones partner , like a more benevolent Yoko Ono -LRB- another ex-Warhol affiliate -RRB- .
Let 's just say that with all the cross-accusations and denials plus multiple books making different claims , we may never get to the bottom of Pallenberg 's relationship with Richards or the band.And as to her estate groundskeeper -LRB- Scott Cantrell , the aforementioned 17-year-old -RRB- , with whom she was also allegedly having an affair , here 's an AOL News item as recent as 2010 which still does n't give us any definitive answers .
His death was ruled a flat suicide in 1980 ; Richards still rehashes the old Russian Roulette rumor anyway .
Lots of mean things said back and forth in this story .
Mick Jagger usually writes The Stones lyrics , but Richards wrote all of these .
Keith said that he almost pulled the song from the album because he was concerned that the tune might not be entirely original .
