`` Jenny '' is just a name .
A name that scans well in songs .
She 's a conglomeration of people and experiences had by the band , according to keyboardist Ben Romans .
`` A lot of people are like , ` Okay , who 's Jenny ? ' ''
he laughs .
`` It 's more a representation of anyone being fickle .
I mean , for heaven 's sake , I 've been that way before .
So it 's just more a song about not being able to make a decision .
It 's more a song about that kind of moment that hangs in the middle of the air ; is it gon na happen or is it not gon na happen ?
It 's pretty much that .
Everybody can relate to that , no matter what it is .
It does n't have to be necessarily a relationship , it can be anything .
It can be career related .
It 's just about that moment of uncertainty , when you think you have something and you do n't , or you do n't have it and then you do , and so forth and so on.But that was a fun song .
That was written with some friends of mine in London , actually a day off of the tour , which is really cool .
I mean , there 's something about London , there 's just such a rich history of rock and roll .
But also it 's a really well-crafted song , obviously .
I think people in England really take pride in really crafting melodic type of songs .
So just being there alone kind of obviously influenced the song , and writing with the people .
And Jez Ashurst , a friend of mine , is also writing on that song .
He 's in a band called Farah , it 's a really great band .
But they value the same thing , so we have a lot in common .
So the song kind of forwarded itself out pretty fast . ''
Although he contributes both lyrically and musically to the band , Ben 's first love has always been composition .
It was n't until college that he sort of forced himself to begin writing lyrics .
And now he finds himself caught in the middle .
But do n't think he does n't like it !
His story : `` I 've always come from a musical place before anything else , and geeking out .
I liked composition before I actually got into songwriting .
But I think I 've always found myself kind of caught in between .
I still do .
I love composition , but I 've always wanted to listen to songs that people like .
I always enjoyed secretly listening to the radio when I was supposed to be doing something else .
But I think that also kind of pushed me to be where I am .
It 's why I like Electric Light Orchestra , for example .
Those things that to me are kind of scrambled , on a parallel with the place I came from growing up .
But I did make a really conscious effort to really dive into the lyric world in college , just because I wanted to do something else .
I think I might have gotten a little burned out on the compositional side , and I just really wanted to kind of get myself a beat down.And especially with the new record that we 're working on , it 's very lyrically charged .
A lot of it comes from the titles .
We 're all fans of anybody that can already grab your attention from an intriguing title .
Tom Petty does it a lot .
I mean , he 'll write ` Learning To Fly , ' and already you 're kind of intrigued .
And especially this album I would say we 're trying to be as broad as we can .
Because I think that the more broad you can go , the more people you can relate to .
And it 's not an easy task . ''
-LRB- Check out the full Ben Romans interview . -RRB-
