This is the first single from A Dramatic Turn of Events , the eleventh studio album by American progressive metal band Dream Theater .
It was the first record to feature drummer Mike Mangini following the departure of founding member Mike Portnoy in September 2010 .
Mangini was recruited after a lengthy audition process that was filmed for a documentary that ran on their label Roadrunner Records ' YouTube channel .
It also marked the first time guitarist John Petrucci was the sole producer for Dream Theater .
He told Musicradar.com : `` From day one it was always going to be the first track on the record .
It 's also the first song that Mike Mangini really brought to life , so right there it 's special . ''
The song was released via YouTube on June 29 , 2011 .
The band was conscious when writing the song that as the opening track to the first post-Portnoy album , it should reflect the signature sound of the band .
Said Perrucci : `` We wanted it to have all of the elements of Dream Theater .
It would be progressive , it would be metal , and it would be melodic .
There would be some big shred moments mixed with very dramatic breakdowns .
It 's got everything that we love to do as a band . ''
Petrucci came up with the intro guitar riff while he was playing an acoustic at home by the fire .
He told Musicradar : `` I was thinking , How should this record begin ?
What should be the first thing that people hear ?
The idea that came to me was a little bit Pink Floyd -- moody , foreboding , this drifting arpeggiated guitar pattern . ''
Mangini told Bravewords.com that he thought the first `` riff '' section on this track was a particularly memorable part of the recording of A Dramatic Turn of Events .
He explained : `` I had practiced hard to play this , so I got better from it .
This section features a level of co-ordination that allows me to orchestrate the simultaneously -LRB- but different -RRB- parts played by the guys .
The ` Johns ' -LSB- Petrucci , guitar ; Myung , bass -RSB- are playing in unison and Jordan is playing a different part .
I feel that by coloring it in rather than layering on another complex part , or too simple a drumbeat , is very different for DT . ''
