Clay Walker can most likely be credited with introducing the steel drum into mainstream Country music .
It was such a departure for the genre that songwriter Randy Sharp worried it might not find an audience .
But he loves the path least trodden , and thoroughly enjoyed what Walker did with this song .
Says Sharp : `` It was a writing session with my friend John Vezner , he co-wrote it with me .
And John and I at that time were getting together every few months in my trips to Nashville , which I 've been doing regularly since the early '80s , and we kind of always have written what we feel like is a little outside of the predictable for the Nashville scene .
And that 's been a good thing often , like in the case of ` Then What ? '
But many times I think because of our indulgence in trying to write things that are a little bit odd , it 's probably kept us from getting more co-writes cut .
But Clay Walker was someone that he knew , and he was able to actually get on his bus and play it for him in a rough guitar/vocal form , and got him excited about it just with that .
So that was a real unusual story as far as how it got cut as well . ''
`` We had n't put a steel drum on the demo .
The steel drum was all Clay .
In fact , when he said he was going to do the song we had n't even demoed it yet .
That was just John getting on Clay 's bus out somewhere in the middle of the country , where he ran into him , and saying , ` Here 's something I 'm working on , ' played it on a guitar , and he just went for it . ''
`` Pretty much it 's 5-7 years before my stuff gets cut after I write it , '' explains Sharp .
Which is n't uncommon in the music industry .
`` It gets pitched over and over and , because I do n't tend to write for what 's going on right now , I try to write a little bit outside of that , and kind of quirky .
So it takes longer to find a home for these things .
So the fact that John and I wrote this strange little song , and it found a home almost immediately , was really unusual .
And without a real polished demo .
`` And then , with that steel drum in the Country music format , `` That 's really surprising that it was such a big hit .
I 'm glad he did it that way .
If he 'd not felt like he had to groom it a little bit for the market , that was an obvious place to go , and he took that , and I 'm really glad that he did .
He did a real good job on it . ''
-LRB- Read more in our interview with Randy Sharp . -RRB-
As hard-core songwriters , Sharp and Vezner are prone to sitting down at a session and brainstorming ideas .
`` My memory on it is a little fuzzy , '' says Sharp , `` but I 'm guessing that we were probably talking about a mutual friend -- and there 's plenty of them that 've had this experience - who stepped over that line , and all the trouble he got into for not thinking ahead , and going ahead and having that affair , and thinking he could pull it off , and thinking it would n't destroy everything .
And I 'm sure that 's where the conversation started .
`` When throwing ideas around a room , sometimes someone throws out a `` little jewel , '' a phrase that scans well , and causes `` everybody 's eyes to get big , because we know what we want to write now . ''
Such was the case with this song .
`` It 's real easy to remember it this way -- whether it 's true or not -- that we were telling these stories about our friend , and one of us , after a pause , just said , ` Well , then what do you do ? '
You know , once you 've taken that step , and there 's no going back over that bridge , then what happens ?
And that was basically it .
John and I both also are real fans of playing with the language , and in that song there 's a lot of that rapid-fire lyric , there 's a lot of words in that song , which is always a challenge to make up .
And the subject 's pretty serious , but the delivery of it and the lyric , I think , there 's a lightness to it , kind of a fun-ness to it , and we kept that in .
And a lot of it has to do with just the way the words are working together and there 's a lot of little tricky things we did in there purposefully just to take some of the darkness out of the theme . ''
