Despite its unfortunate title , this song is about murdering an errant lover rather than demeaning group sex .
However , the dark house track is still lyrically explicit and was therefore omitted from the `` clean '' version of MDNA .
The song finds Madonna at her most primal and animalistic .
Speaking with Sirius XM Radio , she revealed that MDNA resulted from her need to unleash some serious pent-up emotions . ''
I felt like a caged animal .
I felt like I had to scream .
I had to get some things off my chest , '' she said , adding , '' There 's something simple and primal and direct about playing guitar and singing . ''
During a Facebook interview with Jimmy Fallon , Madonna said she had wanted Quentin Tarantino to direct a video for this track .
`` That 's who I was thinking about when I was writing the song , '' the singer told Fallon .
`` I was picturing one of his movies , and one of the female characters . ''
Speaking to Digital Spy about his contribution to the song , Mika said : `` There were a lot of people involved in that record .
I would n't say I wrote the song , but I definitely wrote part of it .
The result is actually a very cool colliding of lots of separate people and I love that chaotic nature about it .
I like the song , I just wish all of them on her album was like that .
It was cut with the attitude of a Grace Jones record - you did n't know where that song was going .
That 's what I love about it . ''
Amongst the eight credited songwriters on this track are the British pop singer Mika , who tweeted on March 8 , 2012 that the song is , `` weird as f -- k , underground and lyrically cool , it 's amazing and bizarre .
I love it , she sounds so good singing words so harsh . ''
Co-producer William Orbit discussed the song 's dark lyrical content with MTV News : '' -LSB- It 's -RSB- aggressive , '' he said .
`` It 's like she sang that off the bat .
I mean that .
She created it in the moment .
And the lyrics were all there , but I think she fell into a character .
It was actually a good day .
It was n't a dark day .
There was n't like aggression in the air .
The demo created out of the blue pretty much .
She loved the spirit of it .
We were all dancing around the control room .
It was a total atmosphere of spontaneity .
Pretty good fun , but it 's dark . ''
Mika told BBC 1 Radio 1 's Reggie Yates that he originally titled the song `` Bang Bang , '' but it was changed as there were already songs with that name .
