This was based on a newspaper story Paul McCartney read about a runaway girl .
On February 27th , 1967 the London Daily Mail 's headline read : `` A-level girl dumps car and vanishes . ''
That girl was 17-year-old Melanie Coe , who had ran away from home leaving everything behind .
Her father was quoted as saying , `` I can not imagine why she should run away , she has everything here . ''
McCartney said in 1000 UK # 1 Hits by Jon Kutner and Spencer Leigh , `` We 'd seen that story and it was my inspiration .
There was a lot of these at the time and that was enough to give us the storyline .
So I started to get the lyrics : she slips out and leaves a note and the parents wake up , it was rather poignant .
I like it as a song and when I showed it to John , he added the Greek chorus and long sustained notes .
One of the nice things about the structure of the song is that it stays on those chords endlessly . ''
No Beatles played instruments on this .
John and Paul contributed vocals , which were double-tracked to sound like a quartet , and session musicians played strings .
The first female to play on a Beatles album , Sheila Bromberg , played harp .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Some of the lyrics were things John Lennon 's Aunt Mimi said to him as a child .
She raised John after his parents separated .
Melanie Coe , who became an estate agency director , told Dave Simpson her story in a 2008 interview for The Guardian .
Said Coe : `` London was a very different place in the '60s .
I went to a club called the Bag O ' Nails -LSB- Soho -RSB- and I met everybody .
You sat on the next table to the Beatles , the Rolling Stones , the Hollies , because there were n't many clubs in London .
I got in coz I was a cute little girl and I dressed in the latest fashions .
I 'd go to Mary Quant and Biba , sketch the dress and get my aunt to make my clothes .
Ready Steady Go !
loved that .
They held open auditions .
I was 13 .
It went on what you were wearing and how you danced .
I was asked to come every week .
I met the Beatles at Ready Steady Go !
George was great to meet - I looked a lot like Pattie Boyd , who later became his wife , of course.I was always going out .
I danced the night away and was a face in London .
In those days , to be trendy everything had to be French .
I bought the T-shirt of the moment , which was my star sign in French .
I loved that T-shirt .
One day I got home and my mother had cut it to ribbons .
She wanted me to look like Princess Anne , not my idol , Marianne Faithfull .
When my parents found out I had the pill they grabbed me by the scruff of the neck and made me flush them down the toilet.I was 17 by then and ran away leaving a note , just like in the song .
I went to a doctor and he said I was pregnant , but I did n't know that before I left home .
My best friend at the time was married to Ritchie Blackmore , so she hid me at their house in Holloway Road .
It was the first place my parents came to look , so I ran off with my boyfriend , who was a croupier , although he had been ` in the motor trade ' like it says in the song .
I think my dad called up the newspapers - my picture was on the front pages .
He made out that I must have been kidnapped , because why would I leave ?
They gave me everything - coats , cars .
But not love .
My parents found me after three weeks and I had an abortion.I did n't realize for a long time that the song was about me .
Years later Paul was on a program talking about how he 'd seen a newspaper article and been inspired by it .
My mother pieced it all together and called me to say , ` That song 's about you ! '
I ca n't listen to the song .
It 's just too sad for me .
My parents died a long time ago and we were never resolved .
That line , ` She 's leaving home after living alone for so many years ' is so weird to me because that 's why I left .
I was so alone .
How did Paul know that those were the feelings that drove me towards one-night stands with rock stars ?
I do n't think he can have possibly realized that he 'd met me when I was 13 on Ready Steady Go !
, but when he saw the picture , something just clicked . ''
The string section was arranged by Mike Leander because producer George Martin was busy .
Leander would later arrange strings for The Rolling Stones on `` As Tears Go By . ''
In 1988 this was covered by Billy Bragg as part of the children 's charity project album Sgt. Pepper Knew My Father .
His version was released as a single in the UK as part of a double A side with Wet Wet Wet 's version of `` With A Little Help From My Friends . ''
The double A sided single topped the UK charts for four weeks .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England -RRB-
