This song deals with the plight of Native Americans whose land was basically stolen from them , and in addition to being dehumanised , scalped and disenfranchised found themselves confined to reservations in squalid conditions where alcoholism and other social unpleasantries were rife .
According to Elizabeth Rosenthal 's biography His Song : The Musical Journey of Elton John , `` Indian Sunset '' was inspired by a visit lyricist Bernie Taupin made to a reservation .
Narrated by an unnamed Native American , this emotive ballad which runs to 6 minutes 47 seconds , is about the end of a way of life as the colonization of the vast American continent by the White Man leads inevitably to the subjugation and near extinction of its former masters .
Bernie Taupin used a little poetic license with this song ; Geronimo , who was an Apache , was not killed by renegades ; he surrendered to General Miles in September 1886 , and was treated magnanimously , becoming a celebrity in his old age , and publishing his autobiography .
He died of pneumonia in 1909 .
-LRB- thanks , Alexander Baron - London , England , for above 3 -RRB- The song `` Ghetto Gospel '' by Tupac samples and repeats the lyrics , `` Those who wish to follow me I welcome with my hands '' and `` And the red sun sinks at last into the hills of gold '' and mixes together the first half of the line , `` And peace to this young warrior '' and half of `` without the sound of guns . ''
-LRB- thanks , Michael - Sydney , Australia -RRB- Although separate by decades and genré this song has much in common with Europe 's `` Cherokee , '' and barring the works of Native American singer-songwriter Buffy St-Marie , is one of only a handful of contemporary ballads to explore the suffering of this once proud warrior race .
The string arrangement by Paul Buckmaster gives the song both a grandiose and a melancholy effect .
See Geronimo in Song Images .
Elton told Rolling Stone in 2011 that this is one of his favorites to play live .
Said Elton : `` I do ` Indian Summer ' with Ray Cooper .
Nobody knows that song at all , it 's an obscure track from Madman Across the Water , and it gets a standing ovation every night .
It 's a six-minute movie in a song . ''
