The first single from Filter 's sixth album The Sun Comes Out Tonight , this song was written by their frontman Richard Patrick along with guitarist Jon Radtke and producer Bob Marlette .
In our interview with Richard Patrick , he explained that they had been listening to the British Rock band Kasabian , which was an influence on the track .
`` They had kind of a cool groove , so we were inspired by that and picked up on that groove , and started writing around that , '' he said .
`` Then we put it into Filter chords , which is always way down by the third , fourth fret .
You know , the third , sixth , and seventh fret .
All that darkness all around in there . ''
Patrick says that this song is `` A take on this constant noise level in society . ''
The lyrics came from conversations he had with Jon Radtke and Bob Marlette about global warming , and how powerless they feel as politicians refuse to take action .
`` The point is : what do you say , it does n't really matter anyways , '' said Patrick .
`` When everything goes down , it 's not going to matter .
What 's going to happen here , we 'll laugh about it all one day .
When it all goes down , the only thing that you 'll be able to do is laugh about it and just throw your hands up . ''
The lyrical hook on this song - `` Hey , hey , what do you say ? ''
- is a common expression said in a variety of situations , similar to `` Hey Man Nice Shot , '' a phrase that became Filter 's biggest hit .
`` I was thinking , ` Hey , hey , what do you say ? '
It really does n't matter anyway , and everyone bitches and nothing gets done , '' Patrick told us .
`` Everybody spent a ton of money getting Obama into office , all the poor people , and as soon as he gets in , five guys from the Tea Party stop everything and now we ca n't even get the government doing anything .
Everybody 's screaming and yelling all at the same time and no one 's listening .
Bill O'Reilly and Rush Limbaugh .
No one 's taking the time to actually sit there and listen .
They 're just out there making money .
Rush does it for the money .
Bill O'Reilly said he loves the money , he does n't really care about what he 's saying , as long as he makes money . ''
