This heartbreaking song finds Luke Bryan touching on the lonely side of life .
It was one of two original songs that Bryan wrote for his Spring Break ... Here to Party album , the remaining twelve were from his previous Spring Break EPs .
Bryan told reporters that the entire idea of a vacation-themed EP began because he had a collection of tunes that were n't right for any of his other projects .
`` The whole birth of spring break and the Spring Break album started because I had all these songs that I knew would never be able to make it on a mainstream album , '' he explained .
`` We played a show the day before Kenny Chesney was doing a show in Spinnaker 's .
He 'd go down there and do that , too .
We had so much fun down there , we were like , ` Hey , let 's just keep doing it every year . '
Then we started coming up with the Spring Break album , so we said , ` Let 's start putting some music out and promote spring break around that , and put the album around the shows .
Here we are , five years later , and we 've somehow stayed afloat with it all .
I 'll do it as long as I look like I need to be doing it .
I do n't want to be some old weirdo down there at spring break .
My wife and a lot of our friends come down from Nashville , and we have a good time .
We kind of get to be back in college for a few days too , which is pretty fun .
`` Bryan added that he never imagined the vacation concept would continue so successfully for so long .
`` Spring Break originally started from songs that were in my catalog , so we already had them written , '' he explained .
`` The first couple of Spring Break albums , we were pulling from songs that I wrote throughout the year .
The last two , we did n't have a song going into January , we knew we were recording a spring break album the first of February , and I was panicking .
So for one month , I focused on writing Spring Break songs , because all we had to do was write five or six of them and go record them .
It became something that was fun to come back at the top of the year and try to write Spring Break albums .
My co-writers would come to me with spring break titles , because they knew that I would be looking for -LSB- them -RSB- . ''
Spring Break ... Here to Party was Bryan 's second # 1 Country album , and his first-ever chart-topper on the all-genre Billboard 200 .
The first week figure of 150,000 copies sold gave Bryan the biggest sales week of his career .
The song 's music video shows an awkward meeting between two past flames .
One has moved on while the other is still hung up on the past .
`` There 's a scene where I 'm doing an acoustic performance of it with two of my band members , '' Bryan explained to reporters .
`` We 're in the bar , but then there 's two actors caught up in the ` Buzzkill ' drama of that scene , and I 'm kind of in the bar performing while it 's happening ... I think visually it 's a great video .
It showcases the song like we wanted , and we 're excited to have it out . ''
