Parmalee is an American Country music band from Parmalee , North Carolina .
The quartet consists of brothers lead vocalist Matt Thomas and drummer Scott Thomas , along with their bassist cousin , Barry Knox , and childhood best friend , guitarist Josh McSwain .
This song was first released on their 2008 EP , Complicated , before being remixed and re-released as their second single for Stoney Creek Records .
It was sent to country radio on February 4 , 2013 .
The song 's promo was directed by the Nashville production team of Jonathan Frazier and Zach Prichard of Rhetorik Creative on May 30 , 2013 .
It made a little bit of history when it became the first country video to premiere on Country Now , Youtube 's first Country music & lifestyle channel on June 24 , 2013 .
Matt Thomas told Taste of Country that this was a make-it-or-break-it song for the band and if it had n't been a hit , they might not have had a chance to release another single with Stoney Creek .
`` We kind of got here to Nashville on the song , '' he shared .
`` Everybody at the label felt like it was a hit song , so did we so it was kind of like this should be a no-brainer .
We were a little nervous when we first put it out over the summer . ''
Matt Thomas explained the song 's meaning to Billboard magazine : `` It 's all about home , '' he said .
`` It 's very autobiographical , since we 're gone all the time .
We always miss all the family events and everyone , so coming home is good .
We were out in California for a few months and got back home to North Carolina , and it felt like home .
I had this notion that reminded me of California , so I put the two together , and we flipped it into a relationship song . ''
Barry Knox added : `` This song kind of defines us as a group , as far as our music and lyrical content .
Obviously , we 're from Carolina , so it means a whole lot to us .
We 've been together for a few years before we wrote that song , and when we wrote it , we felt that we really hit it .
Matt 's voice is perfect on the song , and it just sounds like a Parmalee song . ''
The song crept up Billboard 's Country Airplay chart before finally hitting the Top 10 in its 38th week - the longest such climb by a duo or group in the chart 's history .
