This Paul Stanley sung self-empowerment anthem interested a certain modern star who is well known for singing tunes about embracing who you are .
Gene Simmons told Billboard magazine : `` When ` Freak ` was being written , Lady Gaga got interested in singing on it , because it espouses her emotions about being comfortable in your skin and all that stuff .
And that 's a healthy message for everybody .
For a while Paul and I were going to sing it , for a while I was gon na sing it , and then Paul and Gaga were gon na sing it , and then finally I suggested Paul should sing it by himself , let 's just do a band album .
And while it 's great that Gaga-who in my estimation is the only rock star out there , modern .
There 's nobody else-talks about self-empowerment , all that stuff , we made our imprint and stuck our foot firmly into the ground almost 40 years ago and said , ` This is who we are , take it or leave it .
` So in the days of tie-dyed shirts and hippies and anti-war stuff and schools being closed down , we did n't care .
We are Kiss , we are alive , we are our own definition .
We 've never looked over our shoulder to see what 's in fashion , what 's not , we do n't care .
And Kiss continues today .
Fashions come and go .
Punk came and died .
Grunge came and then died .
Thrash came and then died .
New romance came and died .
Alternative came and died , then they called it indie .
We .
Do n't .
Care .
Kiss is its own definition . ''
Paul Stanley told Noisecreep that he 's felt like an outsider since his teenage years in Queens , New York .
`` I absolutely still feel like a freak .
That 's a state of mind .
It has nothing to do with how much money you have or how successful you are , '' he said.The Kiss vocalist/guitarist added that he 's eventually came to peace with those feelings .
`` So am I a freak ?
Of course I am .
But I 'm proud to be one .
Just look at what I 'm doing every night .
Look at how I live .
I 'm not rebelling against anything , because the ultimate rebellion is to live your life your own way .
Anyone that thinks being a successful person , or a millionaire , rules out feeling like a freak and makes you conventional ... sorry .
The two co-exist proudly .
You can become a big success because you 're a freak and that 's the ultimate win-win . ''
