This was written by Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller , who also wrote `` Hound Dog , '' which became a huge hit when Elvis recorded it .
Leiber and Stoller excelled at writing catchy Pop songs with elements of Blues music .
Their songs could be very funny and clever , and often take place in unusual situations .
Some of their other hits include `` Love Potion # 9 '' and `` On Broadway . ''
Mike Stoller played piano on this track .
The line , `` Number 47 said to number 3 , You 're the cutest jailbird I ever did see , '' is a sly reference to prison sex but was not offensive enough to create any controversy over the song .
Elvis joined the army shortly after this song was released .
ABC television ran a series of educational cartoons called `` Schoolhouse Rock '' in the '70s .
Millions of kids learned about grammar , history , and astronomy from them .
The title was a play on this song .
January 2005 marked what would have been Elvis Presley 's 70th birthday .
In commemoration , Elvis ' record label re-released this in the UK where it went straight to # 1 , making it the oldest recording ever to top the UK charts .
It also became the third single to hit # 1 twice in the UK , following `` Bohemian Rhapsody '' and `` My Sweet Lord , '' both of which were also posthumous re-releases .
-LRB- thanks , Edward Pearce - Ashford , Kent , England -RRB- The Cramps recorded a version of this on the CD The Last Temptation of Elvis .
All profits went to a music therapy charity .
-LRB- thanks , Richard - London , England -RRB- On November 4 , 1957 , this topped both the Pop and R&B charts .
In an odd twist , the next five positions on both charts were also the same songs : `` Wake Up Little Susie '' by the Everly Brothers , `` You Send Me '' by Sam Cooke , `` Silhouettes '' by the Rays , `` Be-Bop Baby '' by Ricky Nelson , and `` Honeycomb '' by Jimmie Rodgers .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- This was featured in the Elvis movie of the same name , where Elvis plays a wrongly accused convict who becomes a star when he gets out .
The film , which is considered one of the best of his 31 movies , is famous for the scene where Elvis performs this song in an elaborate dance number taking place in prison.The movie score was the first one that Leiber and Stoller wrote .
Stoller recalled to Mojo magazine April 2009 : `` We flew in to New York from LA , where were living at that time , and we had a hotel suite .
We had a piano put in , in case the muse struck us , and Jean Aberbach - he and his brother -LRB- Julian -RRB- owned Hill & Range Songs and they had to deal with Colonel Parker but created Gladys Music and Elvis Presley Music-handed us a script for a movie .
We threw it in the corner with the tourist magazines that you get in hotels .
We were having a ball in New York , going to the theatre , going to jazz clubs to hear Miles Davis and Thelonious Monk , doing a lot of drinking .
On a Saturday morning - we 'd been there about a week - Jean knocked on the door and said , in a very Viennese accent , ` Vell boys , you vill haf my songs for the movie . '
Jerry said , ` Do n't worry Jean , you 'll have them ' Jean said , ' I know . '
And he pushed a big chair in front of the door and sat down and said , ' I 'm going to take a nap and I 'm not leaving until you have my songs . '
So we wrote four songs -LRB- including this one -RRB- in about five hours and then were free to go out . ''
This was a massive hit .
It was # 1 on the US pop charts for 7 weeks , and also reached # 1 on the Country and R&B charts .
In the UK , it entered the charts at # 1 , becoming the first song to do so .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- Ozzy Osbourne played a Heavy Metal version of this in 1987 when he did a tour of prisons .
Sha-Na-Na played this at Woodstock in 1969 .
Very few of the attendees saw their performance , as they did n't go on until Monday morning -LRB- the event was scheduled to end at midnight on Sunday , but ran long -RRB- .
Jimi Hendrix followed Sha-Na-Na to close out the festival .
In 2007 , Chris Rock performed this on the Movies Rock TV special , where modern Pop artists performed classic movie songs .
Brown re-created Elvis ' scene from the movie .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB- This song was covered by the Blues Brothers , and featured at the end of the movie of the same name .
The brothers and the band are playing this song to their fellow inmates .
-LRB- thanks , Supanerd01 - melbourne , Australia -RRB-
