This was the debut single from LCD Soundsystem , which is the musical project of American alternative dance producer James Murphy , who says the song is an anthem to growing older and realizing that musical styles change with generations .
The song received a great deal of critical acclaim and was listed at # 13 on Pitchfork Media 's top 500 songs of the 2000s .
The song borrows the rhythm of Killing Joke 's b-side `` Change . ''
To LCD fans this multi-dimensional track is the clearest illustration of the group 's identity .
Murphy concurs , telling The Guardian April 24th , 2010 : `` To me , Losing My Edge was the perfect narrative song that could have ever come from me .
Everything had a layer behind it .
Was it making fun of other people ?
Sure .
Was it making fun of myself for making fun of other people ?
Sure .
But it was also about me kind of believing the things I was saying , and it was also about being a little embarrassed for being the kind of person who would believe those kinds of things . ''
Among the artists Murphy name checks in the song are : Can , Suicide , Captain Beefheart , Daft Punk and Beach Boys .
The American producer refers to Daft Punk again on LCD 's fifth single , `` Daft Punk Is Playing at My House . ''
Murphy explained the inspiration for the song to ieallylovemusic.co.uk : `` When I was DJing , playing Can , Liquid Liquid , ESG , all that kind of stuff , I became kind of cool for a moment , which was a total anomaly .
And when I heard other DJs playing similar music I was like : ` F -- k !
I 'm out of a job !
These are my records ! '
But it was like someone had crept into my brain and said all these words that I hate .
Did I make the records ?
Did I f -- k !
So , I started becoming horrified by my own attitude .
I had this moment of glory though .
People would use me to DJ just to get them cool .
They 'd be like ` It 's the cool rock disco guy ' and this was really weird .
And to be honest I was afraid that this new found coolness was going to go away and that 's where ` Losing My Edge ' comes from .
It is about being horrified by my own silliness .
And then it became a wider thing about people who grip onto other people 's creations like they are their own .
There is a lot of pathos in that character though because it 's born out of inadequacy and love . ''
