When a songwriter is on the road , he has a lot of time to think about the mundane .
When you mix those sorts of thoughts into a group of writers like Jason Michael Carroll , Paul Overstreet , and CMA Writer of the Year winner Casey Beathard , they 're going to brew up something tasty .
In this case , it 's a rolling country tune that ca n't help but leave you smiling .
Says Jason , `` A lot of these A-list writers have been just super nice to me , and great guys .
And I really appreciate that .
And Casey and Paul were no different , they were great .
And I remember going and writing with them , and we came up with this idea to take a whole bunch of nothings , a whole bunch of things that mean absolutely nothing by themselves , and putting them together .
And when we started doing that , we realized that all of these nothings , all these little tidbits of whatever , meant everything when they were put together .
Like , I know there 's a sun -- okay .
And I know there 's a moon .
All right .
-LRB- laughs -RRB- I mean , the lyrics to that song are so simple , but it 's just basically things , what you believe in , things that are common knowledge .
I think honesty 's right -- I think everybody would agree with that , I think lying is wrong -- okay , everybody will agree with that .
I think Willie and Haggard wrote some awfully good songs -- whether or not you 're a country music fan or not , everybody pretty much knows Willie Nelson .
So , I mean , we just took all these little nothings that meant absolutely pretty much nothing on their own , and put them together , and it turns out to mean everything by the time the song 's over with .
And I think that 's one of the coolest things about that song . ''
There 's a dubious line in the song that goes , `` I think God drove around with the radio on in a ragged old truck just like mine . ''
Hard core bible belt folks might take exception to giving God human traits , and when you factor in Jason 's preacher father , it seems like the elements of familial discord .
But Jason 's dad `` thinks it 's great , '' he says .
`` And honestly , it 's not meant to be disrespectful .
It 's honestly the fact that people in the country honestly always say ` we 're in God 's country . '
And I honestly think that there 's a lot of times where if you think that God lives anyway but out walking around on a farm , I mean , that 's about as peaceful as it can get out in the country .
Walking around on a sunny day , driving around on a farm in an old raggedy truck , I mean , it does n't get any better than that .
There 's no feeling like it in the world .
And that 's actually where that came from . ''
-LRB- check out our interview with Jason Michael Carroll -RRB- The great rolling melody was Jason 's idea : `` I had mentioned that I did not have a 6/8 kind of beat song on my first record , and I really wanted one .
Partially because I always try to comply or play to my crowd , and a lot of them dance .
So that 's what I wanted to do with this is give them a dance song from me .
So that 's actually where that came from , and it 's kind of cool . ''
