Cults are a New York based indie pop band signed to Lilly Allen 's In the Name Of label .
Film-school students Brian Oblivion and Madeline Follin originally formed the group as an outlet for their music experiment and a fortnight after posting their electro-pop breakout tune `` Go Outside '' to their Bandcamp site , the song landed on Pitchfork , and the duo received emails from interested record labels .
Cults signed to ITNO/Columbia and Forest Family Records in 2010 and made successful appearances at South by Southwest and FYF Festivals , in support of their self-titled debut album released in May 2011 .
Oblivion explained to Spinner UK that the video runs backwards as they wanted to leave it ambiguous to the viewer who was being abducted or if , in fact , they were in danger at all .
`` That 's what a lot of our songs are about , and that song too , '' he said .
`` It 's like being in a bad situation , or having a f -- ed-up life or a f -- ed-up experience but then having that be preferable to just boredom and nothingness.A lot of the video is about the push-and-pull of the relationship where things could be going really horribly on one side for a while , then really horribly on the other side for a while but that 's the way that life is .
And if things are even keel and normal the whole time , then you 're probably in more trouble than if you 're arguing . ''
At the age of twelve , Madeline Follin was offered a record deal with Recess Records after hanging out in the studio with her stepfather , Paul Kostabi 's band Youth Gone Mad .
However , her parents declined .
This is a track from Cults .
Brian Oblivion told Spinner UK about the song 's music video : `` The only real vision that we had that we kind of kept in mind when writing the song was the scene from Lost Highway by David Lynch , just the car driving at night and the road kind of bending bizarrely in front of it .
We had that image in mind for the song before we even wrote it .
Then we went talked to a bunch of directors and we were like , ` This is really the only idea that we have .
Anything else is fair game . '
We got a bunch of different takes on that , and we also said that we wanted people that had interesting faces to be in the video .
We did n't want to perform .
We did n't want to be in it much .
And then the director that ended up doing it came back with the coolest , most exciting idea . ''
Brian Oblivion 's real name is Ryan Mattos and he started his career in a Slayer tribute band before moving to hip-hop , which is when he changed his name .
