This upbeat and happy song is the first single to be released by the Grammy Award-winning -LRB- for `` Lucky , '' with Jason Mraz -RRB- pop singer-songwriter Colbie Caillat from her third full length album .
The tune was written by Caillat and Toby Gad , whose other credits include Beyoncé 's `` If I Were a Boy '' and Fergie 's `` Big Girls Do n't Cry . ''
It was produced by Greg Wells -LRB- Katy Perry , Kelly Clarkson -RRB- .
Caillat told PopEater that though the protagonist is declaring she wants to raise a family and spend the rest of her life with the one she loves , the song is not about getting hitched .
Said the Bubbly singer : `` People think the song is about getting married and saying `` I do '' at the wedding , but it 's not .
If you listen to the end I say , ' I do love you , ' and it 's about getting ready to tell that person you 're in love with them . ''
Though it was n't Caillat 's original intention , the tune has been received as a wedding song .
Said the Californian singer to AOL : `` Songs are for people to take however they want and to relate them to whatever is going on in their own lives .
So if someone wants to have it at their wedding , I think that 's cool if they want my song to be a part of their day .
`` For some reason , Lisa Loeb did n't have this problem with her `` I Do . ''
Caillat said this quirky love song is about marriage , but is `` supposed to be sort of a joke and is hard to explain . ''
Caillat is not married .
Ethan Lader directed the song 's music video - he has also worked on several of Bruno Mars ' promos .
Caillat told PopEater about the clip : `` The video is me waking up in bed and singing the song .
I 'm thinking about that guy and then I 'm going and doing stuff around the house , and everything in my house kind of portrays the way I 'm feeling .
There 's an alarm clock that you see a smiley face on , and you see a hanger on the door and somehow the door knob and the hanger look like they 're smiling .
It 's all these cool little things when I 'm walking around my house .
I play with my dog , I start singing to my dog because I 'm so happy and giddy .
It shows the real moments of when you 're not with that person , when you 're thinking about them and knowing that you 're ready to tell them that you love them . ''
Caillat did get miffed at the way video directors were interpreting the song .
She told AOL : `` Every single director who sent treatments in -LSB- made it -RSB- all -LSB- about a -RSB- wedding dress , or me at the altar or me dreaming about a wedding .
And I was like , ` No .
Come on , if you understood the song then you 'd know it was n't about that . ' ''
