English indie rock quartet Arctic Monkeys ' first single from their fourth studio album Suck It And See , was this garage rocker .
The song was premiered on Zane Lowe 's BBC Radio 1 show on April 11 , 2011 and released as a digital download the following day .
A limited-edition white-label seven-inch vinyl version was also released on Record Store Day , which was April 16 .
The psychedelic video features filmed band rehearsals intercut with various bits of general footage , including highlights of one of the band 's local football teams , Sheffield Wednesday .
For those of you who are n't Brits , Bonfire Night or Guy Fawkes Night is a British celebration whose origins go back to the early 17th century .
On November 5th 1605 Guy Fawkes was discovered hiding in a cellar beneath the Houses of Parliament in close proximity to 20 or more barrels of gunpowder , a length of slow match and a lantern .
He was taken to the Tower of London where he was agonizingly tortured on the rack until he named his co-conspirators .
Since then the British have celebrated this escape from the Houses of Parliament being blown up .
On November the fifth every year , they light up bonfires , place effigies of Guy Fawkes on the fire and combine this with a firework display .
The inspiration for the song came from a comment chief Monkeys songwriter Alex Turner made whilst recording the soundtrack for his friend Richard Ayoade 's debut film , Submarine .
He recalled to the NME : `` I said it to somebody whose chair I 'd moved and I did n't want them to hurt themselves .
This was while we were in the studio doing the Submarine recording .
James -LRB- Ford , producer -RRB- said , ` Oh that sounds like it could be a '60s garage ` Nuggets ' tune and be called that .
So then we thought , ` Well , OK if that 's what you ca n't do -LRB- sit down because your chair has been moved -RRB- , then what sort of ridiculous things can you do that probably more dangerous than if you just sit down ? '
But also I quite like that it 's , y' know . .
Well , you do n't want people to be sat down , do you ?
You want them to be up . ''
The song finds Turner singing : `` Find a well known ` ard man and start a fight/Wear your shell suit on Bonfire Night . ''
He explained to Q magazine the song is a `` list of really daft , dangerous things that you should n't do . ''
Alex Turner told Shortlist Magazine the main reason the band opted to release this as the lead single from Suck It And See was because it was one of `` the most guitar-heavy '' tunes on the album and he wanted people to hear it as guitar music was currently in the doldrums .
He explained : `` People ask us why we released ` Do n't Sit Down ... ' as the first single , because it 's not the poppiest one on there - it 's really guitar-heavy .
But because we 've got that fanbase and we 're one of the guitar bands that have a shot of getting on the radio in the daytime , I almost feel like it 's our job to put that sort of tune out . ''
