Vampire Weekend takes a stab at arena rock on this synthy number .
Frontman Ezra Koenig commented in the band 's track-by-track production notes : `` On this song , we wanted to get across some big feelings , but still keep a sense of minimalism .
I think we found a way to do that , musically and lyrically . ''
Koenig explained to the NME February 16 , 2010 : `` I got the idea for the song from a book my dad gave me called Giving Up The Gun .
It 's a history book about the time when Japan expelled all the foreigners from the country , closed off all trade and stopped using guns and reverted back to the sword .
It seems unimaginable now that humanity could willingly go back to an older technology .
It got me thinking about whether you could give up all the things that you have and go back to a simpler way of life . ''
The origins of this song date tack to the mid 2000s .
Bassist Chris Baio explained to Drowned in Sound : `` The first time I heard -LRB- a pretty different version of -RRB- this song was at a L'homme Run show in Lerner Hall , Columbia 's student center , in the fall of 2005 .
Rostam -LRB- Batmanglij -RRB- came up on stage and sang along with the choruses .
I think CT -LRB- Chris Tomson -RRB- was playing bongo ?
It was fun !
I remember we tried playing it together as a band in an early Vampire Weekend practice but felt it was n't working and needed a different approach .
This year we revisited it from a more studio/production perspective and wrote new parts .
I 'm personally proud of the bass part I wrote on this one -- it 's minimal but sing-songy , which is not the way I usually write . ''
The song 's music video , which centers on an unbeatable female tennis player , features guest appearances from Joe Jonas , actor Jake Gyllenhaal and rapper/producer RZA .
The Malloys , who have worked with the Jonas Brothers in the past , directed the clip .
The unbeatable female tennis player is played by Jenny Murray , who previously was the goth girl in the `` Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa '' clip .
Her coach in the video is Lil Jon .
