The first single from British Indie band Everything Everything 's second album , Arc , is about a pecuniary contradiction .
Lead singer Jonathan Higgs explained : '' ` Cough Cough ' is about the power of money and the desire to get away from it .
It 's also about waking up and seeing the world as an unfair place and then slipping back under the spell of greed .
It 's about having no money , and wanting more money , and wanting nothing to do with money at all . ''
Everything Everything drummer Michael Spearman explained the band 's songwriting process to CMU : `` Jon -LSB- Higgs -RSB- will demo a song on his computer and bring it in to the rest of us once he is either happy with it or needs some opinions on which direction it should take .
Together we try playing the parts , evolving them and experimenting with the arrangement as we go .
Sometimes sections get re-written or changed a lot , but other times the demos do n't change much at all.There 's always a degree of translation that happens from the programmed parts on the demo to how we 'll play them live , and with that comes a discussion about how we might want it to sound when we come to record it .
With ` Cough Cough ' the demo was pretty dense with ideas and had two more sections in it .
We all felt that it was too confusing , so it became more streamlined , and we worked on how best to order the sections so that they flowed well and the chorus felt like a chorus .
`` Spearman added that the original genesis of this song was Higgs , `` coughing in the rhythm that you hear on the track , and despite going via the denser demo , that simple idea was more effective once the streamlining had taken place . ''
The 2011 riots were an inspiration for the Arc album .
Jonathan Higgs told NME : `` It 's not an overtly political album , but all of that has really gone into the record - the sense of injustice , of people saying , ` If you 're going to present this stuff as the solution to my problems and take away the means to buy it , then I 'm just going to smash a window and take it . '
Certainly there were opportunistic ar -- holes wanting a bigger telly , but the flashpoint was police brutality and this growing sense of us and them , poor versus comfortable .
The extremely wealthy are the government .
It 's why ` Cough Cough ' is so furious . ''
The song 's music video was directed by Jonathan Higgs and shows shots of the band playing playing the track interspersed with images of guns , fire and riots .
He told NME : `` This song was inspired in part by greed , and by the 2011 summer riots , so I wanted it to be aggressive and steeped in crude oil .
All the riot footage came from the UK . ''
