This is one of two original Griffin tunes from her collection of sacred numbers , Downtown Church .
Christianity Today asked her regarding the lyric , `` When you 're lost and you 're found and you 're found and you 're lost , '' what it means to be lost and found in the context of the same gospel song .
She replied : `` Well , that 's the mystery , is n't it ?
Look , we can talk about beliefs and doctrines and what have you .
But when you get older , my experience has been that it 's not that simple .
People are complicated .
That song -- like a lot of my other songs , I suppose -- is trying to get at what really goes on inside , deep down .
It 's about feeling alone and abandoned , and simultaneously aware that there is something or someone bigger and outside of you , and feeling connected to that .
Both those things are true .
It 's not one or the other .
I do n't want to put a label on it .
-LRB- Laughs -RRB- .
I guess that 's sort of a recurring theme with me , is n't it ?
But both those things are true .
That 's what I wanted to communicate .
You 're lost and you 're found .
Both those things are true . ''
Griffin described this song as sharing a recurring theme of her music , loneliness and connection , and being about `` what really goes on inside , deep down . ''
She sings it in a duet with fellow singer-songwriter and friend , Julie Miller .
Griffin 's lyrics have always been very emotional and heartfelt , but this album goes even further and features almost all traditional Gospel songs , and even one traditional song sung in Spanish .
She recorded the album in order to explore her feelings about religion .
Griffin explained in press materials that her own contributions came about after listening to a selection of Bob Dylan 's religious work but failing to connect with them , -LRB- check out Got ta Serve Somebody and Every Grain of Sand for examples -RRB- .
`` Buddy -LRB- Miller , producer -RRB- sent me a lot of that stuff , '' she said .
`` It 's just not my point of view .
The songs I 'm singing , I 'm just interpreting someone else 's ideas , and I 'm not tied to those ideas .
Listening to Dylan , who 's contemporary , and who 's in my genre , if I may be so bold as to say that , I felt like I really had to write my own .
And put a couple in there that feel like me . ''
In 2010 , this song was featured in an episode of the TV show Army Wives titled `` Heavy Losses . ''
