As the singer and chief songwriter for New York based group Aventura , Anthony `` Romeo '' Santos was a key figure in popularizing Bachata , a guitar based music that originated in the Dominican Republic .
After seventeen years together , the quartet publicly confirmed it was breaking up for good in July 2011 .
This bilingual tune is the second single from Santos ' solo debut album , Formula .
The song is a duet with R&B singer Usher and was released to radio on September 2 , 2011 .
Formula debuted at # 9 on the Billboard 200 in its debut week .
Its 62,000 launch marked the biggest sales week of any Latin album for over four years .
On the chart dated June 23 , 2007 , Daddy Yankee 's El Cartel : the Big Boss , sold 82,000 in its first week .
Love told the story of the song to The Boombox : `` I wrote the concept of the record and produced the record along with Romeo .
I wrote the concept and the melody and then he translated what he was saying into Spanish .
He wrote his part .
He had his musicians come in and play it .
It took us 15 hours to track it .
That was recorded this summer . ''
Longtime Usher collaborator Anthony Mandler directed the song 's music video .
The visual was a long shoot , taking 26 hours in total , but Santos learnt a lot from the director .
`` He takes your story to another level visually , '' he said of Mandler to MTV News .
The song was co-written and produced by Rico Love who is responsible for penning such hits as Beyoncé 's `` Sweet Dreams , '' Kelly Rowland 's `` Motivation , '' as well as Usher 's own `` There Goes My Baby . ''
However , this marked Love 's first foray into bachata music .
He told The Boombox : `` I had just educated myself on what it was being that I live in Miami and the group Aventura is so big and the Spanish market is big in Miami .
It 's my first experience like that .
I had worked with Shakira but , you know , we did a few ideas and nothing really surfaced .
This is my first actual pairing and for the record to go # 1 -LRB- in the Latin chart -RRB- is amazing . ''
