After writing for various artists including The Pussycat Dolls , this was Lady Gaga 's first solo single release .
Lady Gaga wrote this song a day after arriving in Los Angeles from New York .
The singer-songwriter told HX Magazine : `` I was taken very quickly out of my party lifestyle .
I wrote it instantly - like it flew out of my body . ''
She explained in the same interview the meaning of the song as `` If you 've ever been so high that it 's , like , scary , the only way you can deal with it is not deal with it , so you just kind of dance through the intoxication . ''
Lady Gaga took her stage name from the Queen song `` Radio Ga Ga. '' The New York artist 's real name is Stefani Germanotta .
After topping the singles tallies in Canada and Australia in 2008 , this song ascended to pole position in the same week in January on both the UK and US charts .
This reached pole position on the song 's 22nd week on the Hot 100 .
It was the longest trip to the top since Creed 's `` With Arms Wide Open '' reached # 1 in its 27th week in November 2000 .
This was not only the breakthrough hit for Lady Gaga , but was also instrumental in introducing to the Top 40 a techno-synth sound that had been popular in Europe for the previous decade .
Lady Gaga 's frequent co-writer and producer RedOne told Billboard magazine that the song , `` was essentially a rock track but with synths instead of guitars .
Big drums .
The vocals were the melody , with a simple chorus .
Thank God we were lucky and it was perfect timing .
The moment the public heard it , they bought into it . ''
This features Colby O'Donis and Akon .
Lady Gaga and O'Donis are both signed to Akon 's Kon Live record label .
GaGa told About.com about the song 's promo : `` That video was a vision of mine .
It was Molina the director who wanted to do something , to have a performance art aspect that was so pop but it was still commercial , but that felt like lifestyle . ''
GaGa explained on her website that the underlying theme of The Fame album `` is about how anyone can feel famous .
Pop culture is art .
It does n't make you cool to hate pop culture , so I embraced it and you hear it all over The Fame .
But , it 's a sharable fame .
I want to invite you all to the party .
I want people to feel a part of this lifestyle . ''
This was the first # 1 song on the Hot 100 to include the word `` dance '' since February 1991 , when by C + C Music Factory 's `` Gon na Make You Sweat -LRB- Everybody Dance Now -RRB- '' ascended to the top position .
Lady Gaga performed this at the inaugural NewNowNext Awards , which were broadcast on the Logo network in June 2008 .
Logo is targeted to the gay community , which comprises much of Lady Gaga 's fan base .
-LRB- thanks , Bertrand - Paris , France -RRB-
