Roll Deep are a London-based grime music collective , who are one of the pioneers of the urban music movement .
They were founded in 2002 by a group of MCs including Wiley , who has gone on to be a successful solo artist in the UK but remains part of the group .
Other notable artists that have been through the Roll Deep ranks or have been associated with them include Tinchy Stryder and Dizzee Rascal .
The members of the collective who contributed to this song and the rest of their fourth studio album are Wiley , Target , Flowdan , Scratchy , J2K , Breeze , Brazen , Karnage , Brazen , Killa P , Riko , Skepta .
Danny Weed and Manga .
The song is the most commercial , radio friendly cut Roll Deep has produced to date .
Manga told Once Upon a Grime : '' ` Good Times ' is one song .
The Album has Grime / Hip-Hop , plus loads of other stuff on it .
So the supporters that do n't like this are sure to find something they like on the rest of the album .
It 's defiantly changed , which is natural thing .
When those tunes were made we were n't thinking ` we got ta make a Grime classic ' , those tunes were just done .
That 's how we felt at the time .
On that same album we had ` Shake A Leg ' and ` Avenue ' too .
Those times no-one was doing what you would call commercial music .
Now it 's the thing to do to chart .
If you look at it like this music is a reflection of you and as a person , you grow , so should your music .
I 'm not going to make the same songs that I made when I was 16 .
There 's no progression in that .
There 's new talent that can make that .
Not saying that Grime is young , but the type of Grime -LRB- or any music we make -RRB- wo n't be the same as we would then . ''
This urban clubby production features guest vocals from Manchurian singer Jodie Connor .
She told Digital Spy about her hook up with Roll Deep : `` I wrote the track with a producer I work with and at the time he was in Manchester , so I sent him through some tracks and he was like , ' I love it - put Roll Deep on it ' .
He put Roll Deep on it and got it a deal .
The first time I met them was at the video shoot for it .
They 're lovely guys and we got on really well . ''
