Kid Rock reflects on this song that he is in a good place in his life .
The Detroit native explained to Billboard magazine : `` That 's very personal .
I feel like I 've gotten all the bulls -- t and drama out of my life .
I 'm not gon na let it back in .
I feel more comfortable than I 've ever felt in my own skin .
I feel like I 've gotten the bad people out , the hangers-on , and I still have my same circle of friends I grew up with , I still live next to the same town I grew up in .
You wonder as you 're having success , ` why am I not out in the Hollywood sunshine , why am I staying here , it 's winter time , man , I do n't need to be here . '
But I have my son there I 'm raising and now I see I made the right call.It all makes perfect sense now .
Go where you 're celebrated , not tolerated .
I 'm celebrated in Detroit .
There 's no money , no sunshine , no pretty girl on the face of the earth that could give that to me anywhere else .
I go in my little restaurants and people say hello , they do n't bother me .
I feel good that they want me there .
What matters to me is the little town where I live , Clarkston , Michigan , those people really know who I am .
They know a lot more about me than even my closest fans .
And that matters to me , because I live in that community , I have a son there , a family there .
I ca n't control what the rest of the world thinks about some of the antics I go through and they make their assessments on .
And I ca n't give them the whole truth every time , or counter a story when somebody writes something about me .
But there they know exactly who I am .
The pink elephant syndrome is over there.And it 's not just about ` Kid Rock 's from Detroit and he loves it there . '
Wherever anybody 's from , whether you live in Spain or in Tennessee like you , you should be proud of where you come from and be a good person in your community there .
Man , there 's nothing on earth that can make you feel better than that , to have people that care about you and you care about them , 'cause we all got to pick a spot . ''
