This song is about a boy who kills himself at school to get revenge on the students who tormented him .
It is based on the true story of Jeremy Delle , a 16 year old who killed himself in front of his English class at Richardson High School in Richardson , Texas on January 8 , 1991 .
Eddie Vedder found out about Jeremy when he read an article an article about the incident in the Dallas Morning News , which read : `` Because he had missed class , the teacher in his second-period English class told Jeremy to get an admittance slip from the school office .
Instead , he returned with the gun , police said .
He walked directly to the front of the classroom .
` Miss , I got what I really went for , ' he said , then placed the barrel in his mouth and fired . ''
The article adds that three Richardson students committed suicide in 1988 .
-LRB- thanks , Stephanie - Ellicott City , MD -RRB- The line in the chorus is `` Jeremy spoke in class today . ''
It is hard to understand if you do n't speak Vedder .
The video was shot at a warehouse in a seedy section of London .
In 1993 , it won four MTV Video Music Awards : Video of the Year , Best Group Video , Best Metal Hard Rock Video and Best Director .
Pearl Jam did not release another video for 6 years .
They decided that videos detracted from the music , and wanted their fans to come to their shows rather than watch them on TV .
They also hated the process of making the videos , which they got around by not appearing in their next one , a cartoon video for their 1998 song `` Do The Evolution '' that was drawn by Spawn creator Todd McFarlane .
The intro to the song is played on Jeff Ament 's special 12 string bass followed by soft harmonic notes on the guitar .
The bass line continues quietly until the second chorus .
They return in a fade out towards near the end .
-LRB- thanks , Elliot - St. Louis , MO -RRB- If you watch the music video closely , you can spot a quick switch during the shot of the kids standing with their hands over their hearts for the pledge of allegiance , to what appears to be the kids giving a Nazi salute for less than a second before going back to the original shot .
Presumably this is a commentary on the US school system , and not some kind of subliminal message in favor of Nazism .
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Melrose , MA -RRB- In 1996 Barry Loukaitis , a junior-high student in Washington State , shot and killed two students and a teacher when he went to school .
He claimed he was copying the video for this song .
This was the third single from the album , following `` Alive '' and `` Even Flow . ''
A fourth single , `` Oceans , '' was also released , but it got very little radio play and did n't do very well .
`` Oceans '' was the only single from Ten that was released in the UK .
The B-side of the single was `` Yellow Ledbetter , '' a popular song not available on any of their albums .
Radio stations often play an edited version , which cleans up the line `` seemed a harmless little f -- k. '' The Ten album sold over 10 million copies , which is known as `` diamond '' status .
