Some of the lyrics are in Japanese .
The first few lines translate to `` Thank you very much Mr. Roboto , until we meet again , thank you very much Mr. Roboto , I want to know your secret . ''
The album title , Kilroy Was Here , is a phrase that was graffitied all over the place in the 1940s .
It went along with a drawing of a creature with a big nose peering over a wall .
No one is sure what the phrase means or where it originated , but it was seen in most of Europe and even in Japan during World War II .
This slogan was painted in areas that the Allies occupied during the defeat of Germany and Japan .
-LRB- thanks , Patrick - Conyers , GA -RRB- Dennis DeYoung wrote this song and spearheaded the `` Kilroy '' concept .
He wrote the album like a screenplay , telling the story of a kid who forms a band after seeing Elvis and The Beatles on The Ed Sullivan Show .
His fellow band members were far less enthusiastic about the idea.Along with the director Brian Gibson , DeYoung wrote a short film called Kilroy Was Here that was shown at the beginning of shows on their tour .
Footage from the film was used to make the `` Mr. Roboto '' video .
If you watch the film , pay close attention to the guy who plays Jimi Hendrix - that 's Michael Winslow , famous for his mouth-generated sound effects and role in the Police Academy movies .
This was featured in a Volkswagen commercial where a man is singing along to this in his car , but because the Volkswagen is soundproof , we do not hear him until he opens the door .
The ad was for the 1999 Volkswagen Golf .
`` Kilroy '' is the main character of the album .
He is a famous Rock Star who is sent to prison by a group called The Majority For Musical Morality .
In jail , workers have been replaced by robots , and Kilroy escapes inside a robot costume -LRB- thus , Mr. Roboto -RRB- .
This song is about his escape from jail , and makes a statement about the dehumanizing of the working class .
-LRB- thanks , Mike - Winnipeg , Canada -RRB- Kilroy Was Here is a concept album that is a commentary on censorship .
Styx 1983 tour was a stage production based on the album , in which the band members wore costumes and had dialogue .
Tommy Shaw left the band when the tour was over , as tensions built up within the group .
Stan Winston , who became one of the most illustrious makeup artist/costume designers in Hollywood , designed the robot masks used in the video for this song .
Winston went on to work on the James Cameron films Terminator 2 : Judgment Day and Avatar.The choreography for the robots was by Kenny Ortega , whose credits include Dirty Dancing and High School Musical movies .
Pinnochio performs this song in the movie Shrek 2 .
-LRB- thanks , Andy - Apex , NC -RRB-
