This was Avenged Sevenfold 's first release since 2011 's `` Not Ready To Die , '' which was recorded in April of 2011 for the Call of Duty : Black Ops expansion ` Call of the Dead . '
`` Carry On '' was featured on the end credits of that game 's sequel Call of Duty : Black Ops II .
Regarding the song 's lyrics , M. Shadows said he `` wanted to be more vague . ''
`` Sometimes , I feel like my lyrics meander a little bit , '' he explained , `` and our songs are so big I need to write more words than are necessary .
I wanted to leave these lyrics more open-ended .
I felt that the term ` Carry On ' was perfect not only for the characters but for Avenged Sevenfold moving forward .
I stuck with that .
I just wanted to write some epic lyrics you could think about when you were driving down the street or on your horse -LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
It 's a classic , vast , up-tempo metal song .
` Carry On ' worked with that . ''
Speaking with Artist Direct 's Rick Florino , vocalist M. Shadows told the story behind the song : `` Well , it came together by listening to way too much Ozzy 's Boneyard on SiriusXM Radio , '' he said .
-LSB- Laughs -RSB- .
`` They play a lot of classic metal and thrash on there .
It 's everything from Judas Priest and Iron Maiden to Helloween and Rush .
There 's all sorts of fun stuff .
When we got called about this song , we basically had three days to write it , a couple of days to record it , and we had to be in there doing motion capture .
We were like , ` Let 's do something that 's a bit of a throwback . '
It 's a little more compact as a song .
They needed it to be under four minutes because of animation .
We wanted to make a song that punched you in the gut and left you there .
We made an up-tempo song with some chord modulations and fun chorus tricks .
We had a great time doing it .
We wanted to make an uplifting song that was fun and entertaining at the end of the game .
I think it came out really well . ''
We see the band in pixelated form performing the song during the game 's end credits .
Kerrang !
asked M. Shadows what it was like performing all the motion capture stuff ?
He replied : `` It was a lot of fun .
But like anything , when you get down to the work involved in it , it 's pretty painstaking .
Things like pretending you 're screaming , but you 're not allowed to move your head too much , takes some getting used to .
And we had to perform parts of the song over and over again .
That stuff was n't so much fun , but when you see how it 's all put together and how cool the end result comes out , it 's definitely all worth it . ''
