The engineer Adrian Kerridge developed a thumping drum sound for this track , which became known as the Tottenham sound .
Tottenham is an area in North London , where Dave Clark came from .
Lead vocalist Mike Smith came across a song called `` Glad All Over '' by Carl Perkins and wrote a new song with the same title .
Smith recalls , `` We had lost out on ` Do You Love Me ' to Brian Poole and so Dave -LRB- Clark -RRB- thought we should do an original .
He asked me to come up with something and I looked through my record collection for a suitable title . ''
Smith came across a song called ` Glad All Over ' by Carl Perkins and wrote a new song with the same title .
Written by Clark and Mike Smith , this was the first American hit for The Dave Clark Five , and their second chart entry in the UK , where their cover of `` Do You Love Me '' made # 30 a month earlier .
The song holds a distinctive honor on the UK chart , as it knocked The Beatles `` I Want To Hold Your Hand '' out of the top spot .
After The Beatles drew record ratings on the Ed Sullivan Show , the host was looking for the next British Invasion stars and found them in The Dave Clark Five .
The band appeared on the show March 8 , 1964 , where they performed this song .
This gave the band an audience in America and propelled the song up the charts ; it reached its peak position of # 6 on April 25 .
The Dave Clark Five were a favorite of Sullivan , who had them back on the show 11 more times .
Getting them on the show the first time proved a challenge , however .
The show was n't broadcast in England , so Clark had never heard of it and turned down the offer .
When Sullivan 's producer called back offering a substantial payment , he convinced his bandmates to make the trip .
Crystal Palace Football Club have adopted this song as their theme song .
When they reached the FA Cup Final in 1990 , the Crystal Palace players teamed up with a UK group called the Fab Four to record a cover version of this - it reached # 50 in the UK .
Dave Clark says : `` I knew that we needed a song with the thumps in .
we had been playing dance halls and we were getting a great audience response to the stomping things we were doing . ''
-LRB- Above quotes from 1000 UK # 1 Hits by Jon Kutner and Spencer Leigh . -RRB-
The band was at a crossroads when this song 's success cleared their path .
`` We started from nothing , and then we were very fortunate , '' Clark told us .
`` I always said to the boys , ` We 'll only go professional if we get two Top 5 records .
If not , we just carry on and play for the fun of it . '
Well , fortunately ` Glad All Over ' took off , and it was selling like 180,000 a day . ''
-LRB- Here 's our full Dave Clark interview . -RRB-
